# BEGIN PROB

Consider the following incomplete assignment statement.

`result = evs______.mean()`

In each part, fill in the blank above so that result evaluates to the specified quantity.
question here

# BEGIN SUBPROB

A DataFrame, indexed by `"Brand"`, whose `"Seats"` column contains the average
number of `"Seats"` per `"Brand"`. (The DataFrame may have other columns in it as
well.)

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer: ** `.groupby('Brand')`

Recall that if we want to index based on a certain column and perform an aggregation on this index
we can use the `.groupby` call. This function groups based on an index and will perform an aggregation that is specified.
In this case, the question tells us we want the average which is done using `.mean`, but this is already given
so the student did not need this knowledge. Knowing the proper usage of `.groupby` the anwser is simply `.groupby('Brand')`.


# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

A number, corresponding to the average `"TopSpeed"` of all EVs manufactured
by Audi in evs

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer: ** `[evs.get('Brand')=="Audi"].get("TopSpeed")`

This problem can be split into to primary objectives. First we want to filter
the Brand to only be Audi evs. We can do this by using `.get` to access the `"Brand"` column
and filter for all values of `Audi` in this column. We want the average of the `"TopSpeed"` column
so we use `.get` to get this column and the given portion of code calculates the average. Therefore the anwser is
`[evs.get('Brand')=="Audi"].get("TopSpeed")`. 

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

A number, corresponding to the average of the natural logarithm of the `"TopSpeed"`
of all EVs in evs. (Hint: The function `np.log` computes the natural logarithm of a
single number.)

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer: ** `.get('TopSpeed').apply(np.log)`

The problem can be broken into two key portions, first extracting the column of interest
and applying the np.log function to this column. To get the column we use `get` and we 
want to select the `"TopSpeed"` column. We then can use `.apply` to apply the function
to this column. The average is taken with `.mean` which is provided in the question. 

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB