# BEGIN PROB

TritonTrucks is an EV startup run by UCSD alumni. Their signature EV, the TritonTruck, has a subpar battery (the engineers didn't pay attention in their Chemistry courses).

A new TritonTruck's battery needs to be replaced after 500 days, unless it fails first, in which case it needs to be replaced immediately. On any given day, the probability that a given TritonTruck's battery fails is 0.02, independent of all other days.

Fill in the blanks so that `average_days_until_replacement` is an estimate of the **average number of days a new TritonTruck's battery lasts without needing to be replaced**.

```py
def days_until_replacement(daily_conditions):
    days = 0
    for i in __(a)__:
        if daily_conditions[i] == True:
            __(b)__
        else:
            return days
    return days
    
total = 0
repetitions = 10000
for i in np.arange(repetitions):
    # The first element of the first argument to np.random.choice is
    # chosen with probability 0.98
    daily_conditions = np.random.choice(__(c)__, 500, p=[0.98, 0.02])
    total = total + days_until_replacement(daily_conditions)
average_days_until_replacement = total / repetitions
```

What goes in blanks (a), (b), and (c)?

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:**

- Blank (a): `np.arange(len(daily_conditions))`
- Blank (b): `days = days + 1`
- Blank (c): `[True, False]`

At a high-level, here's how this code block works:

- `daily_conditions` is an array of length 500, in each each element is `True` with probability 0.98 and `False` with probability 0.02. Each element of `daily_conditions` is meant to represent whether or not the given TritonTruck's battery failed on that day. For instance, if the first four elements of `daily_conditions` are `[True, True, False, True, ...]`, it means the battery was fine the first two days, but failed on the third day.
- The function `days_until_replacement` takes in `daily_conditions` and returns the number of days until the battery failed for the first time. In other words, it returns the number of elements before the first `False` in `daily_conditions`. In the example above, where the first four elements of `daily_conditions` are `[True, True, False, True, ...]`, `days_until_replacement` would return 2, since the battery lasted 2 days until it needed to be replaced. It doesn't matter what is in `daily_conditions` after the first `False`.

With that in mind, let's fill in the pieces.

- Blank (a): We need to loop over all elements in `daily_conditions`. There are two ways to do this, in theory – by looping over the elements themselves (e.g. `for cond in daily_conditions`) or their positions (e.g. `for i in np.arange(len(daily_conditions))`). However, here we _must_ loop over their positions, because the body of `days_until_replacement` uses `daily_conditions[i]`, which only makes sense if `i` is the position of an element in `daily_conditions`. Since `daily_conditions` has 500 elements, the possible positions are 0, 1, 2, ..., 499. Since `len(daily_conditions)` is 500, both `np.arange(len(daily_conditions))` and `np.arange(500)` yield the same correct result here.

- Blank (b): `days` is the "counter" variable that is being used to keep track of the number of days the battery lasted before failing. If `daily_conditions[i]` is `True`, it means that the battery lasted another day without failing, and so 1 needs to be added to `days`. As such, the correct answer here is `days = days + 1` (or `days += 1`). (If `daily_conditions[i]` is `False`, then the battery has failed, and so we return the number of days until the first failure.)

- Blank (c): This must be `[True, False]`, as mentioned above. There are other valid answers too, including `np.array([True, False])` and `[1, 0]`.

<average>56</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END PROB
