# BEGIN PROB

<span style="color:red"><b>Note: This problem is out of scope; it covers material no longer included in the course.</b></span>

The WNBA is interested in helping boost their players' social media presence, and considers various ways of making that happen.

Which of the following claims can be tested using a randomized controlled trial? Select all that apply.

[ ] Winning two games in a row causes a player to gain Instagram followers.
[ ] Drinking Gatorade causes a player to gain Instagram followers.
[ ] Playing for the Las Vegas Aces causes a player to gain Instagram followers.
[ ] Deleting Twitter causes a player to gain Instagram followers.
[ ] None of the above.

# BEGIN SOLN

**Answers:**

- Drinking Gatorade causes a player to gain Instagram followers.
- Deleting Twitter causes a player to gain Instagram followers.

The key to this problem is understanding the nature of randomized controlled trials (RCTs). To run an RCT, we must be able to randomly assign our test subjects to either a treatment or control group, and apply some treatment only to the treatment group. With that in mind, let's look at the four options.

- **Option 1:** Here, the treatment would be winning two games in a row. However, this is not something we could apply to a treatment group, since we can't control whether or not basketball players win games (let alone two games in a row). As such, this is not an RCT we could run.
- **Option 2:** Here, the treatment would be drinking Gatorade. We indeed could have a treatment group drink Gatorade; this is no different than having a treatment group take some form of medicine. This is an RCT we could run.
- **Option 3:** Here, the treatment would be playing for the Las Vegas Aces. Similar to Option 1, this is not an RCT we could run, since we can't control which teams players play for.
- **Option 4:** Here, the treatment would be deleting Twitter. While they may not like it, we could have players participating in our study delete their Twitter accounts, so this is an RCT we could run.

Note, our assessment above did not look at the outcome, gaining Instagram followers, at all. While to us it may seem unlikely that drinking Gatorade causes a player to gain Instagram followers, that doesn't mean we can't run an RCT to check.

<average>77</average>

# END SOLN

# END PROB