# BEGIN PROB

Let’s start by correcting the data in the `"Rating"` column. All the values in this column are strings of length 4. In addition, some strings use commas in place of a dot to represent a decimal point. Select the options below that evaluate to a Series containing the values in the `"Rating"` column, appropriately changed to floats.

**Note:** The Series method `.str.replace` uses the string method `.replace` on every string in a Series.

[ ] `float(games.get("Rating").str.replace(",", "."))`
[ ] `games.get("Rating").str.replace(",", ".").apply(float)`
[ ] `games.get("Rating").str.replace(",", "").apply(int)/100`
[ ] `games.get("Rating").str.replace(",", "").apply(float)`

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** Options 2 and 3 

**Option 1:** Let’s look at the code piece by piece to understand why this does not work. `games.get("Rating")` gives you the column 	`"Rating"` as a Series. As per the note, `.str.replace(",", ".")` can be used on a Series, and will replace all commas with periods. The issue is with the use of the `float` function; the `float` function can convert a single string to a float, like `float("3.14")`, but not an entire Series of floats. This will cause an error making this option wrong.

**Option 2:** Once again we are getting `"Rating"` as a Series and replacing the commas with periods. We then apply `float()` to the Series, which will successfully convert all of the values into floats.

**Option 3:** Following the same logic as above, we are getting `"Rating"` as a Series, but change it up by replacing the commas with an empty string, which is effectively nothing. Notice this makes the numbers 100 times too big. Since there are no decimals we can convert the Series’ strings into integers, which is done by doing `.apply(int)`. Finally, because the elements inside of `"Rating"` are 100 times too large it can be fixed by dividing them all by 100.

**Option 4:** Again, we are getting `"Rating"` as a Series and replacing the commas with an empty string. The values inside of `"Rating"` are then converted to floats, which is fine, but remember, that the numbers are 100 times too big. This means we have altered the actual value inappropriately, which makes this option incorrect.

<average>67</average>

# END SOLUTION

**Important!** For the rest of this exam, we will assume that the values in the `"Rating"` column have been correctly changed to floats.

# END PROB
