# BEGIN PROB
It’s your first time playing a new game called *Brunch Menu*. The deck contains 96 cards, and each player will be dealt a hand of 9 cards. The goal of the game is to avoid having certain cards, called *Rotten Egg* cards, which come with a penalty at the end of the game. But you’re not sure how many of the 96 cards in the game are *Rotten Egg* cards. So you decide to use the Central Limit Theorem to estimate the proportion of Rotten Egg cards in the deck based on the 9 random cards you are dealt in your hand.

# BEGIN SUBPROB
You are dealt 3 Rotten Egg cards in your hand of 9 cards. You then construct a CLT-based 95% confidence interval for the proportion of Rotten Egg cards in the deck based on this sample. Approximately, how wide is your confidence interval?

Choose the closest answer, and use the following facts:

- The standard deviation of a collection of 0s and 1s is $\sqrt{(\text{Prop. of 0s}) \cdot (\text{Prop of 1s})}$.

- $\sqrt{18}$ is about $\frac{17}{4}$.

( ) $\frac{17}{9}$
( ) $\frac{17}{27}$
( ) $\frac{17}{81}$
( ) $\frac{17}{96}$

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** $\frac{17}{27}$

A Central Limit Theorem-based 95% confidence interval for a population proportion is given by the following:

$$\left[ \text{Sample Proportion} - 2 \cdot \frac{\text{Sample SD}}{\sqrt{\text{Sample Size}}}, \text{Sample Proportion} + 2 \cdot \frac{\text{Sample SD}}{\sqrt{\text{Sample Size}}} \right]$$

Note that this interval uses the fact that (about) 95% of values in a normal distribution are within 2 standard deviations of the mean. It's key to divide by $\sqrt{\text{Sample Size}}$ when computing the standard deviation because the distribution that is roughly normal is the distribution of the sample mean (and hence, sample proportion), not the distribution of the sample itself.

The width of the above interval – that is, the right endpoint minus the left endpoint – is

$$\text{width} = 4 \cdot \frac{\text{Sample SD}}{\sqrt{\text{Sample Size}}}$$

From the provided hint, we have that

$$\text{Sample SD} = \sqrt{(\text{Prop. of 0s}) \cdot (\text{Prop of 1s})} = \sqrt{\frac{3}{9} \cdot \frac{6}{9}} = \frac{\sqrt{18}}{9}$$

Then, since we know that the sample size is 9 and that $\sqrt{18}$ is about $\frac{17}{4}$, we have

$$\text{width} =  4 \cdot \frac{\text{Sample SD}}{\sqrt{\text{Sample Size}}} = 4 \cdot \frac{\frac{\sqrt{18}}{9}}{\sqrt{9}} = 4 \cdot \frac{\sqrt{18}}{9 \cdot 3} = 4 \cdot \frac{\frac{17}{4}}{27} = \frac{17}{27}$$

<average>51</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB
Which of the following are limitations of trying to use the Central Limit Theorem for
this particular application? Select all that apply.


[ ] The CLT is for large random samples, and our sample was not very large.
[ ] The CLT is for random samples drawn with replacement, and our sample was drawn without replacement.
[ ] The CLT is for normally distributed data, and our data may not have been normally distributed.
[ ] The CLT is for sample means and sums, not sample proportions.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** Options 1 and 2

**Option 1:** We use Central Limit Theorem (CLT) for large random samples, and a sample of 9 is considered to be very small. This makes it difficult to use CLT for this problem.

**Option 2:** Recall CLT happens when our sample is drawn with replacement. When we are handed nine cards we are never replacing cards back into our deck, which means that we are sampling without replacement.

**Option 3:** This is wrong because CLT states that a large sample is approximately a normal distribution even if the data itself is not normally distributed. This means it doesn’t matter if our data had not been normally distributed if we had a large enough sample we could use CLT.

**Option 4:** This is wrong because CLT does apply to the sample proportion distribution. Recall that proportions can be treated like means.

<average>77</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB
