# BEGIN PROB

You are unsure whether it would make sense to use `"BGG Rank"` as the index of the `games` DataFrame, because you are unsure whether this column has duplicate values. Perhaps, for example, two games are tied and both have a rank of 6.

Select all of the expressions below that evaluate to True when the `"BGG Rank"` column could be used as the index (no duplicates), and False when it could not be used as the index (duplicates). In other words, these are the expressions that can be used to detect the presence of duplicate values.

[ ] `(games.get("BGG Rank") - np.arange(games.shape[0])).max() == 1`
[ ] `games.groupby("BGG Rank").count().get("Name").max() == 1`
[ ] `games.shape[0] - len(np.unique(games.get("BGG Rank"))) == 0`
[ ] `games.get("BGG Rank").max() - games.shape[0] == 0`

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** Options 2 and 3

**Option 2:** `games.groupby(“BGG Rank”).count()` gets all of the unique `“BGG Rank”`’s and puts them into the index. Then by using the aggregate function `.count()` we are able to turn all the remaining columns into the number of times each `“BGG Rank”` appears. Since all of the columns are the same we just need to get one of them to access the counts. In this case we get the column “Name” by doing `.get(“Name”)`. Finally, when we do `.max() == 1` we are checking to see if the maximum count for the number of unique `“BGG Rank”`’s is one, which would mean there are no duplicates.

**Option 3:** Let’s work from the inside out for this line of code: `len(np.unique(games.get(“BGG Rank”)))`. Like all the others we are getting a Series of `“BGG Rank”`. `np.unique()` gives us an array with unique elements inside of the Series. When we do `len()` we are figuring out how many unique elements there are inside of `“BGG Rank”`. Recall `games.shape[0]` gets us the number of rows in `games`. This means that we are trying to see if the number of rows is the same as the number of unique elements inside of `“BGG Rank”`, and if they are then that means they are all unique and should equal 0.

**Option 1:** `games.get(“BGG Rank”)` will get you a Series of the `“BGG Rank”` column. `np.arange(games.shape[0])` will create a numpy array that will go from zero to `games.shape[0]`, which is the number of rows in the `games` DataFrame. So it would look something like: `arr([0, 1, 2, . . ., n])`, where `n` is the number of rows in `games`. By doing: `games.get(“BGG Rank”) - np.arange(games.shape[0])` one is decreasing each rank by an increasing factor of one each time. This essentially gives a Series of numbers, but it doesn’t actually have anything to do with uniqueness. We are simply finding if the difference between `“BGG Rank”` and the numpy array leads to a maximum of 1. So although the code works it does not tell us if there are duplicates.

**Option 4:** `games.get(“BGG Rank”).max()` will give us the maximum element inside of `“BGG Rank”`. Note, `games.shape[0]` gets us the number of rows in `games`. We should never make assumptions about what is inside of `“BGG Rank”`. This means we don’t know if the values line up nicely like: 1, 2, 3, . . . `games.shape[0]`, so the maximum element could be unique, but be bigger than `games.shape[0]`. Knowing this, when we do the whole line for Option 4 it is not guaranteed to be zero when `“BGG Rank”` is unique or not, so it does not detect duplicates.

<average>76</average>

# END SOLUTION

**Note:** We will not set the index of `games`, instead we’ll leave it with the default index.

# END PROB
