# BEGIN PROB

Notice that `"Strategy Games"` and `"Thematic Games"` are two of the possible domains, and that a game can belong to multiple domains.

Define the variables strategy and thematic follows.

```py
strategy = games.get("Domains").str.contains("Strategy Games")
thematic = games.get("Domains").str.contains("Thematic Games")
```


# BEGIN SUBPROB
 What is the data type of `strategy`?

( ) `bool`
( ) `str`
( ) `Series`
( ) `DataFrame`

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** `Series`

`strategy` will give you a `Series`. This is because `games.get(“Domains”)` will give you one column, a `Series`, and then `.str.contains(“Strategy Games”)` will convert those values to `True` if it contains that string and `False` otherwise, but it will not actually change the `Series` to a `DataFrame`, a `bool`, or a `str`.

<average>81</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB
Suppose we randomly select one of the `"Strategy Games"` from the `games` DataFrame.

What is the probability that the randomly selected game is **not** also one of the `"Thematic Games"`? Write a single line of Python code that evaluates to this probability, using the variables `strategy` and `thematic` in your solution.

**Note:** For this question and others that require one line of code, it’s fine if you need to write your solution on multiple lines, as long as it is just one line of Python code. Please do write on multiple lines to make sure your answer fits within the box provided.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** `(games[(strategy == True) & (thematic == False)].shape[0] / games[strategy == True].shape[0])` or
`1 - games[strategy & thematic].shape[0] / games[strategy].shape[0]`

The problem is asking us to find the probability that a selected game from `“Strategy Games”` will **not** be in `“Thematic Games”`. Recall that this is the probability that given `“Strategy Games”` will it not be in `“Thematic Games”`, which would look like this: P(`“Thematic Games”` Compliment|`“Strategy Games”`). This means the formula would look like: (`“Thematic Games”` Compliment **and** `“Strategy Games”`)/`“Strategy Games”`

This means one possible solution for this would be: `(games[(strategy == True) & (thematic == False)].shape[0] / games[strategy == True].shape[0]`
This solution works because we are following the formula to find the probability of thematic complement and strategy games over the number of times `“Strategy Games”` are `True`. Doing `games[query_condition]` gives us the `games` DataFrame where `strategy == True` and `thematic == False`. Another important thing is that for (baby)pandas we always use the keyword `&` and not `and`. Note that we are using `.shape[0]` to get the number of rows or times that `True` shows up for `“Strategy Games”` and the number of rows or times that `False` shows up for `“Thematic Games”` Compliment.

Another possible strategy would be using the complement rule: Which would be: P(`“Thematic Games”` Compliment) = 1 - P(`“Thematic Games”`). This would lead you to an answer like: `(1 - games[strategy & thematic].shape[0]) / games[strategy].shape[0]`. `games[strategy & thematic].shape[0])` finds you the probability of P(`“Thematic Games”`), so when plugged into the equation above we are able to find P(`“Thematic Games”` Compliment).


<average>43</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB
Many of the games in the `games` DataFrame belong to more than one domain. We want to identify the number of games that belong to only one domain. Select all of the options below that would correctly calculate the number of games that belong to only one domain.
**Hint:** Don’t make any assumptions about the possible domains.

[ ] `(games.get("Domains").str.split(" ").apply(len) == 2).sum()`
[ ] `(games.get("Domains").apply(len) == 1).sum()`
[ ] `(games[games.get("Domains").str.split(",").apply(len) == 1].groupby("Domains").count().get("Name").sum())`
[ ] `games[games.get("Domains").str.split(",").apply(len) == 1].shape[0]`

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** Options 3 and 4

Let’s take a closer look at why **Option 3** and **Option 4** are correct.

**Option 3**: Option 3 first queries the `games` DataFrame to only keep `games` with one `“Domains”`. `games.get(“Domains”).str.split(“,”).apply(len) == 1` gets the `“Domains”` column and splits all of them if they contain a comma. If the value does have a comma then it will create a list. For example let’s say the domain was `“Strategy Games”, “Thematic Games”` then after doing `str.split(“,”)` we would have the `list`: `[“Strategy Games”, “Thematic Games”]`. Any row with a `list` will evaluate to `False`. This means we are only keeping values where there is **one** domain. The next part `.groupby(“Domains”).count().get(“Name”).sum()` makes a DataFrame with an index of the unique domains and the number of times those appear. Note that all the other columns: `“Name”`, `“Mechanics”`, `“Play Time”`, `“Complexity”`, `“Rating”`, and `“BGG Rank”` now evaluate to the same thing, the number of times a unique domain appears. That means by doing `.get(“Name”).sum()` we are adding up all the number of times a unique domain appears, which would get us the number of games that belong to only one domain.

**Option 4**: Option 4 starts off exactly like Option 3, but instead of doing `.groupby()` it gets the number of rows using `.shape[0]`, which will give us the number of games that belong to only one domain.

**Option 1:** Let’s step through why Option 1 is incorrect. `games.get(“Domains”).str.split(“ ”).apply(len) == 2.sum()` gives you a `Series` of the `“Domains”` column, then splits each domain by a space. We then get the length of that `list`, check if the length is equal to 2, which would mean there are two elements in the `list`, and finally get the sum of all elements in the list who had two elements because of the split. Remember that `True` evaluates to 1 and `False` evaluates to 0, so we are getting the number of elements that were split into two. It does not tell us the number of games that belong to only one domain.

**Option 2:** Let’s step through why Option 2 is also incorrect. `(games.get(“Domains”).apply(len) == 1).sum()` checks to see if each element in the column `“Domains”` has only one character. Remember when you apply `len()` to a string then we get the number of characters in that string. This is essentially counting the number of domains that have 1 letter. Thus, it does not tell us the number of games that belong to only one domain.

<average>86</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB
