# BEGIN PROB
We want to create a bootstrapped 95% confidence interval for the median `"Complexity"` of all cooperative games, given a sample of 100 cooperative games.

Suppose `coop_sample` is a DataFrame containing 100 rows of games, all of which are cooperative games. We’ll calculate the endpoints `left` and `right` of our bootstrapped 95% confidence interval as follows.

```py
medians = np.array([])
for i in np.arange(10000):
    resample = coop_sample.sample(100, replace=True)
    median = np.median(resample.get("Complexity"))
    medians = np.append(medians, median)
left = np.percentile(medians, 2.5)
right = np.percentile(medians, 97.5)
```

Now consider the interval defined by the endpoints `left_2` and `right_2`, calculated as follows.

```py
medians_2 = np.array([])
for i in np.arange(10000):
    shuffle = coop_sample.assign(shuffle=
    np.random.permutation(coop_sample.get("Complexity")))
    resample_2 = shuffle.sample(100, replace=True)
    median_2 = np.median(resample_2.get("shuffle"))
    medians_2 = np.append(medians_2, median_2)
left_2 = np.percentile(medians_2, 2.5)
right_2 = np.percentile(medians_2, 97.5)
```

Which interval should be wider, `[left, right]` or `[left_2, right_2]`?

( ) `[left, right]`
( ) `[left_2, right_2]`
( ) Both about the same.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** Both about the same.

It’s important to understand what each code block above is doing in order to answer this question. Let’s take a look at the original `medians` code. We are sampling from the `coop_sample` to create a shuffled `coop_sample`, we then get the median of the column “Complexity” and append it to the `medians` array. Finally, we find the left and right percentiles of the `medians` array.

Now we will look at what `medians_2` is doing. It looks like we are adding a new column called `“shuffle”` to `coop_sample`. The column `“shuffle”`  is a shuffled version of `“Complexity”`. Then we are taking the `shuffle` DataFrame with the `“shuffle”` column and sampling from `“shuffle”` to randomize it again. Then we get the median of this shuffled column and find its percentiles.

Essentially, both of these blocks of code are taking the `“Complexity”` column, shuffling it, finding the median of the shuffled column, and then finding the confidence interval. Since it is being done on the same column and in basically the same way both intervals `[left, right]` and `[left_2, right_2]` are about the same.

<average>77</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END PROB
