# BEGIN PROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB
Suppose that for children’s games, `"Play Time"` and `"Rating"` are negatively linearly associated due to children having short attention spans. Suppose that for children’s games, the
standard deviation of `"Play Time"` is twice the standard deviation of `"Rating"`, and the average `"Play Time"` is 10 minutes.
We use linear regression to predict the `"Rating"` of a children’s game based on its `"Play Time"`. The regression line predicts that *Don’t Break the Ice*, a children’s game with a `"Play Time"` of 8 minutes will have a `"Rating"` of 4. Which of the following could be the average `"Rating"` for children’s games?

( ) 2
( ) 2.8
( ) 3.1
( ) 4

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** 3.1. 

It is important for this question to look at the information given to us. We know we are working with a negatively linear association. We know that the standard deviation of `“Play Time”` is twice the standard deviation of `“Rating”.` The average `“Play Time”` is 10 minutes The regression line predicts a children’s game with a “Play Time” of 8 minutes will have a “Rating” of 4. 

Let's first assume we have a perfectly negative linear association, which would be: r = -1. The `“Play Time”` for *Don’t Break the Ice* is 8 minutes, which is 2 minutes below average ($10 - X = 8$, where we can solve for X to find 2). Since we know `“Play Time”` is 2 minutes below average then we expect `“Rating"` to be one above average (because it has double the standard deviation and is negatively linearly associated). However, we cannot guarantee that r is -1, so the absolute minimum the average of `"Rating"` could be is 3 ($4 - 1 = 3$). We also know that it cannot be 4 because if it did then we would have a correlation of 0 (which is not negatively associated). So it has to be greater than or equal to 3. The only possible answer we have above is 3.1.


<average>55</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB
