# BEGIN PROB

You want to use the data in `stages` to test the following
hypotheses:

-   **Null Hypothesis**: In the Tour de France, the mean distance of
    flat stages is **equal to** the mean distance of mountain stages.

-   **Alternative Hypothesis**: In the Tour de France, the mean distance
    of flat stages is **less than** the mean distance of mountain
    stages.

For the rest of this problem, assume you have assigned a new column to
`stages` called `class`, which categorizes stages into either `flat` or
`mountain` stages.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Which of the following test statistics could be used to test the given
hypothesis? Select all that apply.

[ ] The mean distance of flat stages divided by the mean distance of mountain stages.
[ ] The difference between the mean distance of mountain stages and the mean distance of flat stages.
[ ] The absolute difference between the mean distance of flat stages and the mean distance of mountain stages.
[ ] One half of the difference between the mean distance of flat stages and the mean distance of mountain stages.
[ ] The squared difference between the mean distance of flat stages and the mean distance of mountain stages.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Solution:** Option 1, Option 2, and Option 4 

A test statistic is a single number we use to test which viewpoint the data better supports. During hypothesis testing, we check whether our observed statistic is a “typical value” in the distribution of the test statistic. The alternative hypothesis indicates “less than” so our test statistic needs to summarize both the magnitude and direction of the difference in the categories.

- Option 1 is correct. The mean number of flat stages divided by the mean distance of flat stages is essentially a ratio which is a valid test statistic.
- Option 2 is correct. The difference between the mean distance of mountain stages and the mean distance of flat stages gives direction and magnitude of the difference between the categories so its a valid test statistic.
- Option 3 is incorrect. Taking the absolute value of the difference between the mean distance of flat stages and the mean distance of mountain stages removes the direction of the difference making this an invalid test statistic. 
- Option 4 is correct. One half of the difference between the mean distance of flat stages and the mean distance of mountain stages gives both magnitude and direction of the difference between the categories so this is a valid test statistic. 
- Option 5 is incorrect. Squaring the difference between the mean distance of flat stages and the mean distance of mountain stages removes the direction of the difference between the categories so this is an invalid test statistic.


# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

Assume that for the rest of the question, we will be using the following test statistic:
**The difference between the mean distance of flat stages and the mean dis-
tance of mountain stages.**

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Fill in the blanks in the code below so that it correctly conducts a
hypothesis test of the given hypotheses and returns the p-value.

```py

def hypothesis_test(stages):
    means = stages.groupby("class").mean().get("Distance")
    observed_stat = means.loc["flat"] - means.loc["mountain"]
    
    simulated_stats = np.array([])
    for i in np.arange(10000):
        shuffled = stages.assign(shuffled = np.random.__(i)__(stages.get("Distance")))
        shuffled_means = shuffled.groupby("class").mean().get("Distance")
        simulated_stat = (shuffled_means.loc["flat"] - shuffled_means.loc["mountain"])
        simulated_stats = __(ii)__(simulated_stats, simulated_stat)
    
    p_value = np.__(iii)__(simulated_stats <= observed_stat)
    return p_value
```

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Solution:**

- \(i\): `permutation`
- \(ii\): `np.append`
- \(iii\): `mean`

The first step in a permutation test simulation is to shuffle the labels or the values. So since this first line in the for loop is assigning a column called ‘shuffled’, we know we need to use `np.random.permutation()` on the `"Distances"` column. The next line gets the new means for each group after shuffling the values and `simulated_stat` is the simulated difference in means. Now we know we want to save this simulated statistic and we have the `simulated_stats` array, so we want to use an `np.append` in (ii) to save this statistic in the array. Finally after the simulation is complete, we calculate the p-value using the array of simulated statistics. The p-value is the probability of seeing the observed result under the null hypothesis. `simulated_stats <= observed_stat` returns an array of 0’s and 1’s depending on whether each simulated statistic is less than or equal to the observed statistic. Now, to get the probability of seeing a result equal to or less than the observed, we can simply take the mean of this array since the mean of an array of 0’s and 1’s is equivalent to the probability. 

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Indicate whether each of the following code snippets would correctly calculate `simulated_stat` inside the `for`-loop without errors. Where present, assume the blank `(i)` has been filled in correctly.

```py
shuffled = stages.assign(shuffled = np.random.__(i)__(stages.get("Distance")))
shuffled_flat = (shuffled[shuffled.get("class") == "flat"].get("shuffled"))
shuffled_mountain = (shuffled[shuffled.get("class") == "mountain"].get("shuffled"))
simulated_stat = shuffled_flat.mean() - shuffled_mountain.mean()
```

\(i\) ( ) This code is correct. ( ) This code is incorrect or errors.

``` py
shuffled = stages.assign(shuffled = np.random.__(i)__(stages.get("class")))
shuffled_flat = (shuffled[shuffled.get("shuffled") == "flat"].get("Distance"))
shuffled_mountain = (shuffled[shuffled.get("shuffled") == "mountain"].get("Distance"))
simulated_stat = shuffled_flat.mean() - shuffled_mountain.mean()
```

\(ii\) ( ) This code is correct. ( ) This code is incorrect or errors.

``` py
shuffled = stages.assign(shuffled = np.random.__(i)__(stages.get("Distance")))
shuffled_means = shuffled.groupby("class").mean()
simulated_stat = (shuffled_means.get("Distance").iloc["flat"] -
                  shuffled_means.get("Distance").iloc["mountain"])
```

\(iii\) ( ) This code is correct. ( ) This code is incorrect or errors.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Solution:**
- (\i\): This code is correct
 - `shuffled` shuffles the distances. `shuffled_flat` gets the series of flats with the shuffled distances and `shuffled_mountain` gets the series of the mountains with the shuffled distances. Finally `simulated_stat` calculates the mean difference between the two categories.
- (\ii\): The code is correct. 
 - `shuffled` shuffles the labels. `shuffled_flat` gets the series of the distances with the shuffled label of “flat” and `shuffled_mountain` gets the series of the distances with the shuffled label of “mountain”. Finally, `simulated_stat` calculates the mean difference between the two categories.
- The code is incorrect. 
 - `shuffled` shuffles the distances and assigns these shuffled distances to the column `‘shuffled’`. `shuffled_means` groups by the label and calculates the means for each column. However, `simulated_stat` takes the original distance columns when calculating the difference in means rather than the shuffled distances which is located in the `‘shuffled’` column making this answer incorrect. 

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Assume that the observed statistic for this hypothesis test was equal to
-22.5 km. Given that there are 10,000 simulated test statistics
generated in the code above, at least how many of those must be equal to
-22.5 km in order for us to **reject** the null hypothesis at an 0.05
significance level?

::: center
( ) 500 ( ) 5000 ( ) 0 ( ) 9500 ( ) 10000
:::

# BEGIN SOLUTION

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB # BEGIN SUBPROB

Assume that the code above generated a p-value of 0.03. In the space
below, please write your interpretation of this p-value. Your answer
should include more than simply "we reject/fail to reject the null
hypothesis.\"

::: responsebox
1.75in There is a 3% chance, assuming the null hypothesis is true, of
seeing an observed difference in means less than or equal to -22.5 km.
:::

# BEGIN SOLUTION

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB