# BEGIN PROB

\[(12 pts)\] Suppose the **distance** of a Tour de France stage and the
**time** it takes to complete it are linearly associated with
correlation coefficient $r = \frac{2}{3}$. Assume distances have a mean
of 200 km and a standard deviation of 80 km. Times have a mean of 6
hours.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Suppose the regression line to predict the time a stage will take (in
hours) based on its length (in km) predicts that a 160 km long stage
will take 5 hours. What is the standard deviation of the time it takes
to complete a stage?

::: responsebox
1.2in $x_\text{su} = \frac{160 - 200}{80} = -\frac{1}{2}$. Then
$y_\text{su} = -\frac{1}{2} \cdot \frac{2}{3} = -\frac{1}{3} = \frac{5 - 6}{\text{SD}_y}$.
So $\text{SD}_y = 3$ hours.
:::

# BEGIN SOLUTION

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Suppose, regardless of your answer to **a)**, that stage completion
times have a standard deviation of 1.5 hours. The other means, SD, and
$r$ are unchanged.

Stages in the middle of the Tour tend to be longer than those at the
ends. Stage 14 is 60 km longer than stage 20, so we would expect it to
take longer based on our linear association. How large will the
difference in our predictions of stage completion times be?

::: responsebox
1.2in $m = \frac{2}{3} \cdot \frac{1.5}{80} = \frac{1}{80}$. Stage 14 is
60 km longer, so we expect it to take $\frac{60}{80} = \frac{3}{4}$
hours longer.
:::

# BEGIN SOLUTION

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Suppose a mandatory rest break of 30 minutes (0.5 hours) is implemented
for all Tour de France stages. How would the slope of the regression
line change?

( ) It would decrease.

( ) It would stay the same.

( ) It would increase.

( ) We cannot say for sure.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Suppose the means and standard deviations above do not change (continue
to assume times have a standard deviation of 1.5 hours), but the
correlation coefficient $r$ is different. If we predict a 360 km stage
will take 9 hours, what is the value of $r$? In the box below, write a
single number for $r$ or "N/A\" if it is not possible to answer.

::: center
:::

# BEGIN SOLUTION

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB