---
lecture: 10
---

# BEGIN PROB

ISBN numbers for books must follow a very particular format. The first
12 digits encode a lot of information about a book, including the
publisher, edition, and physical properties like page count. The 13th
and final digit, however, is computed directly from the first 12 digits
and is used to verify that a given ISBN number is valid.

In this question, we will define a function to compute the final digit
of an ISBN number, given the first 12. First, we need to understand how
the last digit is determined. To find the last digit of an ISBN number:

1.  Multiply the first digit by 1, the second digit by 3, the third
    digit by 1, the fourth digit by 3, and so on, alternating 1s and 3s.

2.  Add up these products.

3.  Find the ones digit of this sum.

4.  If the ones digit of the sum is zero, the final digit of the ISBN is
    zero. Otherwise, the final digit of the ISBN is ten minus the ones
    digit of the sum.

For example, suppose we have an ISBN number whose first 12 digits are
$978186197271$. Then the last digit would be calculated as follows:
$$9\cdot 1 + 7\cdot 3 + 8\cdot 1 + 1\cdot 3 + 8\cdot 1 + 6\cdot 3 + 1\cdot 1 + 9\cdot 3 + 7\cdot 1 + 2\cdot 3 + 7\cdot 1 + 1\cdot 3 = 118$$
The ones digit is $8$ so the final digit is $2$.

Fill in the blanks in the function `calculate_last_digit` below. This
function takes as input a **string** representing the first 12 digits of
the ISBN number, and should return the final digit of the ISBN number,
as an `int`. For example, `calculate_last_digit("978186197271")` should
evaluate to `2`.

    def calculate_last_digit(partial_isbn_string):
        total = 0
        for i in __(a)__:
            digit = int(partial_isbn_string[i])
            if __(b)__:
                total = total + digit
            else:
                total = total + 3 * digit
        ones_digit = __(c)__
        if __(d)__:
            return 10 - ones_digit
        return 0

**Note**: this procedure may seem complicated, but it is actually how
the last digit of an ISBN number is generated in real life!

# BEGIN SOLUTION

(a) `np.arange(12) or np.arange(len(partial_isbn_string))`

We need to loop through all of the digits in the partial string we are given.

<average>62</average>

(b) `i % 2 == 0 or i in [0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10]`

If we are at an even position, we want to add the digit itself (or the digit times 1). We can check if we are at an even positon by checking the remainder upon division by 2, which is 0 for all even numbers and 1 for all odd numbers.

<average>41</average>

(c) `total % 10 or int(str(total)[-1])`

We need the ones digit of the total to determine what to return. We can treat `total` as an integer and get the ones digit by finding the remainder upon division by 10, or we can convert `total` to a string, extract the last character with `[-1]`, and then convert back to an `int`. 

<average>44</average>

(d) `ones_digit != 0`

In most cases, we subtract the ones digit from 10 and return that. If the ones digit is 0, we just return 0.

<average>87</average>
 

# END SOLUTION

# END PROB