# BEGIN PROB

At the beginning of 2025, avid reader Michelle will join the Blind Date
with a Book program sponsored by Bill's Book Bonanza. Once a month from
January through December, Michelle will receive a surprise book in the
mail from the bookstore. So she'll get 12 books throughout the year.

Each book is randomly chosen among those available at the bookstore (or
equivalently, from among those in the `bookstore` DataFrame). Each book
is equally likely to be chosen each month, and each month's book is
chosen independently of all others, so repeats can occur.

Let $p$ be the proportion of books in `bookstore` from the romance genre
($0 \leq p \leq 1$).

# BEGIN SUBPROB

What is the probability that the books Michelle receives in February and
December are romance, while the books she receives all other months are
non-romance? Your answer should be an unsimplified expression in terms
of $p$.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** $(1 - p)^{10} * p^2$


<average>57</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

What is the probability that at least one of the books Michelle receives
in the last four months of the year is romance? Your answer should be an
unsimplified expression in terms of $p$.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** $1 - (1 - p)^4$


<average>51</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

It is likely Michelle will receive at least one romance book and at
least one non-romance book throughout the 12 months of the year. What is
the probability that this does not happen? Your answer should be an
unsimplified expression in terms of $p$.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** $p^{12} + (1 - p)^{12}$


<average>29</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Let $n$ be the total number of rows in `bookstore`. What is the
probability that Michelle does not receive any duplicate books in the
first four months of the year? Your answer should be an unsimplified
expression in terms of $n$.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** $\frac{(n - 1)}{n} * \frac{(n - 2)}{n} * \frac{(n - 3)}{n}$

<average>31</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

Now, consider the following lines of code which define variables `i`,
`j`, and `k`.

        def foo(x, y):
            if x == "rating":
                z = bookstore[bookstore.get(x) > y]
            elif x == "genre":
                z = bookstore[bookstore.get(x) == y]
            return z.shape[0]

        i = foo("rating", 3)
        j = foo("rating", 4)
        k = foo("genre", "Romance")

For both questions that follow, your answer should be an unsimplified
expression in terms of `i`, `j`, `k` only. If you do not have enough
information to determine the answer, leave the answer box blank and
instead fill in the bubble.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

If we know in advance that Michelle's January book will have a rating
greater than 3, what is the probability that the book's rating is
greater than 4?

# BEGIN SOLUTION


<average>53</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

If we know in advance that Michelle's January book will have a rating
greater than 3, what is the probability that the book's genre is
romance?

# BEGIN SOLUTION


<average>71</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB