# BEGIN PROB

Bill is curious about whether his bookstore is busier on weekends
(Saturday, Sunday) or weekdays (Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday,
Friday). To help figure this out, he wants to define some helpful
one-line functions.

The function `find_day` should take in a given `"date"` and return the
associated day of the week. For example,
`find_day("Saturday, December 7, 2024")` should evaluate to
`"Saturday"`.

The function `is_weekend` should take in a given `"date"` and return
`True` if that date is on a Saturday or Sunday, and `False` otherwise.
For example, `is_weekend("Saturday, December 7, 2024")` should evaluate
to `True`.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Complete the implementation of both functions below.

    def find_day(date):
        return date.__(a)__

    def weekend(date):
        return find_day(date)[__(b)__] == __(c)__

# BEGIN SOLUTION

(a). **Answer**: `split(",")[0]`

The function `find_day` takes in a string that is a date with the format "Day_of_week, Month Day, Year", and we want the Day_of_week part. `.split(",")` separates the given string by "," and gives us a list containing the separated substrings, which looks something like `["Saturday", " December 7", " 2024"]`. We want the first element in the list, so we use `[0]` to obtain the item at the zero-th index position of the list.

<average>89</average>

(b). **Answer**: `0`

This blank follows a call of `find_day(date)`, which returns a string that is a day of the week, such as `"Saturday"`. The blank is inside a pair of `[]`, hinting that we are performing string indexing. We want to determine whether the string is `"Saturday"` or `"Sunday"`. The only thing in common for these two days and is not common for the other five days of the week is that the string starts with the letter "S". Thus, we get the character at the zero-th index using `[0]` at this blank.

<average>74</average>

(c). **Answer**: `"S"`

After getting the first character in the string, to check whether it is the letter "S", we use `==` to evaluate this character against `"S"`. This expression will give us a boolean, either `True` or `False`, which is then returned.

<average>50</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

Now, Bill runs the following line of code:

    sales_day = sales.assign(weekend = sales.get("date").apply(is_weekend))

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Determine which of the following code snippets evaluates to the
proportion of book purchases in `sales` that were made on a weekend.
**Select all that apply.**

[ ] `sales_day[sales_day.get("weekend")].count() / sales_day.shape[0]`
[ ] `sales[sales_day.get("weekend")].shape[0] / sales_day.shape[0]`
[ ] `sales_day.get("weekend").median()`
[ ] `sales_day.get("weekend").mean()`
[ ] `np.count_nonzero(sales_day.get("weekend") > 0.5) / sales_day.shape[0]`

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer**: 

- `sales[sales_day.get("weekend")].shape[0] / sales_day.shape[0]`
- `sales_day.get("weekend").mean()`
- `np.count_nonzero(sales_day.get("weekend") > 0.5) / sales_day.shape[0]`

First of all, `sales_day = sales.assign(weekend = sales.get("date").apply(is_weekend))` adds a new column called `"weekend"` to the `sales` DataFrame, and this new DataFrame is stored as `sales_day`. The new column contains boolean values that indicate whether the value in the `"date"` column in the corresponding row is `"Saturday"` or `"Sunday"`, which are obtained by applying the function `is_weekend` that we defined in the previous question to the `"date"` column.

Now, we want to find the proportion of book purchases in sales that were made on a weekend, which is basically the proportion of rows in the `"weekend"` column that are `True`. Let's look at each of the options:

- `sales_day[sales_day.get("weekend")].count() / sales_day.shape[0]` (incorrect): You can only use `.count()` on a groupby object. The correct alternative is to use `.shape[0]`.

- `sales[sales_day.get("weekend")].shape[0] / sales_day.shape[0]` (correct): `sales_day.get("weekend")` gets the `"weekend` column from the `sales_day` DataFrame. We then use this Series to query the `sales` DataFrame with `sales[sales_day.get("weekend")]`, keeping only the rows happening on weekends. Lastly. we count the number of rows in this sub-DataFrame with `.shape[0]` and divide by the total number sales to get the proportion.

- `sales_day.get("weekend").median()` (incorrect): A boolean value can be seen as 1 (True) or 0 (False). Since the column `"weekend"` contains all booleans, the median falls on either 1 or 0, which is not the proportion that we want.

- `sales_day.get("weekend").mean()` (correct): A boolean value can be seen as 1 (True) or 0 (False). The mean of the `"weekend"` column is equal to the sum of the column divided the total number of rows in the column. The sum of the column is the sum of all the 1's and 0's, which is just the number of 1's, or, `True`s in the column. The number of `True`s divided by the total number of rows is the proportion of sales on weekend out of total number of sales that we are looking for.

- `np.count_nonzero(sales_day.get("weekend") > 0.5) / sales_day.shape[0]` (correct): A boolean value can be seen as 1 (True) or 0 (False). `sales_day.get("weekend") > 0.5` gives us another Series of booleans indicating whether the value in `"weekend"` is greater than 0.5. If the value is `True`, or, 1, then it's greater than 0.5. `np.count_nonzero` counts the number of values that are not zero, which is the number of `True`s. We then divide the number of `True`s, or, the number of sales on weekend, by the total number of sales to get the proportion we are looking for.

<average>72</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB