# BEGIN PROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Nate's favorite number is 5. He calls a number "lucky\" if it's greater
than 500 or if it contains a 5 anywhere in its representation. For
example, `1000.04` and `5.23` are both lucky numbers.

Complete the implementation of the function `check_lucky`, which takes
in a number as a float and returns `True` if it is lucky and `False`
otherwise. Then, add a column named `"is_lucky"` to `txn` that contains
`True` for lucky transaction amounts and `False` for all other
transaction amounts, and save the resulting DataFrame to the variable
`luck`.

        def check_lucky(x):
            return __(a)__

        luck = txn.assign(is_lucky = __(b)__)

1.  What goes in blank (a)?


2.  What goes in blank (b)?


# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer:** (a): `x > 500 or "5" in str(x)`
(b): `txn.get("amount").apply(check_lucky)`

**What goes in blank (a)?** `x > 500 or "5" in str(x)`
We want this function to return `True` if the number is lucky (greater than 500 or if it has a 5 in it). Checking the first condition is easy,
 we can simply use x > 500. To check the second condition, we’ll convert the number to a string so that we can check whether it contains “5” using the `in` keyword.
  Once we have these two conditions written out, we can combine them with the `or` keyword, since either one is enough for the number to be considered lucky. 
  This gives us the full statement `x > 500 or “5” in str(x)`. Since this will evaluate to `True` if and only if the number is lucky, this is all we need in the return statement.


<br><br>

**What goes in blank (b)?** `txn.get("amount").apply(check_lucky)`
Now that we have the i`s_lucky` function, we want to use it to find if each number in the `amount` column is lucky or not. To do this, we 
can use `.apply()` to apply the function elementwise (row-by-row) to the `amount` column, which will create a new Series of Booleans indicating 
if each element in the “amount” column is lucky.


# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Fill in the blanks below so that `lucky_prop` evaluates to the
proportion of fraudulent `"visa"` card transactions whose transaction
amounts are lucky.

    visa_fraud = __(a)__
    lucky_prop = visa_fraud.__(b)__.mean()

1.  What goes in blank (a)?

2.  What goes in blank (b)?

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer:** (a): `luck[(luck.get("card")=="visa") &`\
    `(luck.get("is_fraud"))]`
(b): `get("is_lucky")`   
**What goes in blank (a)?** `luck[(luck.get("card")=="visa") &`\
    `(luck.get("is_fraud"))]`
    The first step in this question is to query the DataFrame so that we have only the rows which are fraudulent transactions from “visa” cards. `luck.get("card")=="visa"` evaluates to `True` if and only if the 
    transaction was from a Visa card, so this is the first part of our condition. To find transactions which were fraudulent, we can 
    simply find the rows with a value of `True` in the `is_fraud` column. We can do this with `luck.get("is_fraud")`, which is equivalent to `luck.get("is_fraud") == True` 
    in this case since the `is_fraud` column only contains Trues and Falses.  Since we want only the rows where both of these conditions hold, we can combine these two conditions with the logical `&` operator, 
    and place this inside of square brackets to query the luck DataFrame for only the rows where both conditions are true, giving us `luck[(luck.get("card")=="visa") & (luck.get("is fraud") ]`. 
    Note that we use the `&` instead of the keyword `and` since `&` is used for elementwise comparisons between two series, like we’re doing here. and the `and` keyword is used for comparing two booleans (not two Series containing booleans). 


**What goes in blank (b)?** `get("is_lucky")`
We already have a Boolean column `is_lucky` indicating if each transaction had a lucky amount. Recall that booleans are equivalent to 1s and 0s, where 1 represents true and 0 represents false,
 so to find the proportion of lucky amounts we can simply take the mean of the is_lucky column. The reason that taking the mean is equivalent to finding the proportion of lucky amounts comes from 
 the definition of the mean: the sum of all values divided by the number of entries. If all entries are ones and zeros, then summing the values is equivalent to counting the number of ones (Trues) 
 in the Series. Therefore, the mean will be given by the number of Trues divided by the length of the Series, which is exactly the proportion of lucky numbers in the column.


# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Fill in the blanks below so that `lucky_prop` is one value in the Series
`many_props`.

    many_props = luck.groupby(__(a)__).mean().get(__(b)__)

1.  What goes in blank (a)?

2.  What goes in blank (b)?

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer:** (a): `["is_fraud", "“card”"]` or `["“card”", "is_fraud"]`
(b): `"is_lucky"`

**What goes in blank (a)?** `["is_fraud", "“card”"]` or `["“card”", "is_fraud"]`
`lucky_prop` is the proportion of fraudulent “visa” card transactions that have a lucky amount. The idea is to create a Series with the proportions of fraudulent or non_fraudulent transactions from 
each card type that have a lucky amount. To do this, we’ll want to group by the column that describes the card type (`card`), and the column that describes whether a transaction is fraudulent (`is_fraud`). 
Putting this in the proper syntax for a `groupby` with multiple columns, we have `[“card”, “is_fraud”]`


**What goes in blank (b)?** `"is_lucky"`
Once we have this grouped DataFrame, we know that the entry in each column will be the mean of that column for some combination of `is_fraud` and `method`. And, since `is_lucky` contains Booleans, we know 
that this mean is equivalent to the proportion of transactions which were lucky for each `is_fraud` and `method` combination. One such combination is “visa” and fraudulent, so lucky_prop is one element of this Series.


# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB