# BEGIN PROB

Consider the variable `is_fraud_mean`, defined below.

    is_fraud_mean = txn.get("is_fraud").mean()

Which of the following expressions are equivalent to `is_fraud_mean`?
**Select all that apply.**

[ ] `txn.groupby("is_fraud").mean()`
[ ] `txn.get("is_fraud").sum() / txn.shape[0]`
[ ] `np.count_nonzero(txn.get("is_fraud")) / txn.shape[0]`
[ ] `(txn.get("is_fraud") > 0.8).mean()`
[ ] `1 - (txn.get("is_fraud") == 0).mean()`
[ ] None of the above.

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer:** B, C, D, and E.

The correct responses are B, C, D, and E. First, we must see that `txn.get("is_fraud").mean()` will calculate the mean of the `"is_fraud"` column, which is a float representing the proportion of values in the `"is_fraud"` column that are True. With this in mind, we can consider each option:

- Option A: This operation will result in a DataFrame. We first group by `"is_fraud"`, creating one row for fraudulent transactions and one row for non-fraudulent ones. We then take the mean of each numerical column, which will determine the entries of the DataFrame. Since this results in a DataFrame and not a float, this answer choice cannot be correct.

- Option B: Here we simply take the mean of the `"is_fraud"` column using the definition of the mean as the sum of the values divided by the nuber of values. This is equivalent to the original.

- Option C: `np.count_nonzero` will return the number of nonzero values in a sequence. Since we only have True and False values in the `"is_fraud"` column, and Python considers `True` to be 1 and `False` to be 0, this means counting the number of ones is equivalent to the sum of all the values. So, we end up with an expression equivalent to the formula for the mean which we saw in part B. 

- Option D: Recall that `"is_fraud"` contains Boolean values, and that `True` evaluates to 1 and `False` evaluates to 0. `txn.get("is_fraud") > 0.8` conducts an elementwise comparison, evaluating if each value in the column is greater than 0.8, and returning the resulting Series of Booleans. Any `True` (1) value in the column will be greater than 0.8, so  this expression will evaluate to `True`. Any `False` (0) value will still evaluate to `False`, so the values in the resulting Series will be identical to the original column. Therefore, taking the mean of either will give the same value.  

- Option E: `txn.get("is_fraud") == 0` performs an elementwise comparison, returning a series which has the value `True` where `"is_fraud"` is `False` (0), and `False` where `"is_fraud"` is `True`. Therefore the mean of this Series represents the proportion of values in the `"is_fraud"` column that are `False`. Since every value in that column is either `False` or `True`, the proportion of `True` values is equivalent to one minus the proportion of `False` values. 

<average>69</average>


# END SOLUTION

# END PROB