# BEGIN PROB

Since `txn` has 140,000 rows, Jack wants to get a quick glimpse at the
data by looking at a simple random sample of 10 rows from `txn`. He
defines the DataFrame `ten_txns` as follows:

        ten_txns = txn.sample(10, replace=False)

Which of the following code blocks also assign `ten_txns` to a simple
random sample of 10 rows from `txn`?

Option 1:

```py
    all_rows = np.arange(txn.shape[0])
    perm = np.random.permutation(all_rows)
    positions = np.random.choice(perm, size=10, replace=False)
    ten_txn = txn.take(positions)
```

Option 2:

```py
    all_rows = np.arange(txn.shape[0])
    choice = np.random.choice(all_rows, size=10, replace=False)
    positions = np.random.permutation(choice)
    ten_txn = txn.take(positions)
```

Option 3:

```py
    all_rows = np.arange(txn.shape[0])
    positions = np.random.permutation(all_rows).take(np.arange(10))
    ten_txn = txn.take(positions)
```

Option 4:
```py
    all_rows = np.arange(txn.shape[0])
    positions = np.random.permutation(all_rows.take(np.arange(10)))
    ten_txn = txn.take(positions)
```

**Select all that apply.**

[ ] Option 1
[ ] Option 2
[ ] Option 3
[ ] Option 4
[ ] None of the above.

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer:** Option 1, Option 2, and Option 3.

Let's consider each option.

- Option 1: First, `all_rows` is defined as an array containing the integer positions of all the rows in the DataFrame. Then, we randomly shuffle the elements in this array and store it in the array `permutations`. Finally, we select 10 integers randomly (without replacement), and use `.take()` to select the rows from the DataFrame with the corresponding integer locations. In other words, we are randomly selecting ten row numbers and taking those randomly selected. This gives a simple random sample of 10 rows from the DataFrame txn, so option 1 is correct.

- Option 2: Option 2 is similar to option 1, except that the order of the `np.random.choice` and the `np.random.permutation` operations are switched. This doesn’t affect the output, since the choice we made was, by definition, random. Therefore, it doesn’t matter if we shuffle the rows before or after (or not at all), since the most this will do is change the order of a sample which was already randomly selected. So, option 2 is correct.

- Option 3: Here, we randomly shuffle the elements of `all_rows`, and then we select the first 10 elements with `np.take`. Since the shuffling of elements from `all_rows` was random, we don’t know which elements are in the first 10 positions of this new shuffled array (in other words, the first 10 elements are random). So, when we select the rows from `txn` which have the corresponding integer locations in the next step, we’ve simply selected 10 rows with random integer locations. Therefore, this is a valid random sample from `txn`, and option 3 is correct.

- Option 4: The difference between this option and option 3 is the order in which `np.random.permutation` and `np.take` are executed. Here, we select the first 10 elements before the permutation (inside the parentheses). As a result, the array which we’re shuffling with `np.random.permutation` does not include all the integer locations like `all_rows` does, it’s simply the first ten elements. Therefore, this code produces a random shuffling of the first 10 rows of `txn`, which is not a random sample.

<average>82</average>


# END SOLUTION

# END PROB