# BEGIN PROB

As a senior suffering from senioritis, Weiyue has plenty of time on his
hands. 1,000 times, he repeats the following process, creating 1,000
confidence intervals:

1.  Collect a simple random sample of 100 rows from `txn`.

2.  Resample from his sample 10,000 times, computing the mean
    transaction amount in each resample.

3.  Create a 95% confidence interval by taking the middle 95% of
    resample means.

He then computes the width of each confidence interval by subtracting
its left endpoint from its right endpoint; e.g. if $[2, 5]$ is a
confidence interval, its width is 3. This gives him 1,000 widths. Let
$M$ be the mean of these 1,000 widths.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Select the true statement below.

( ) About 950 of Weiyue's intervals will contain the mean transaction amount of all transactions ever.
( ) About 950 of Weiyue's intervals will contain the mean transaction amount of all transactions in `txn`.
( ) About 950 of Weiyue's intervals will contain the mean transaction amount of all transactions in the first random sample of 100 rows of `txn` Weiyue took.
( ) About 950 of Weiyue's intervals will contain $M$.

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer:** About 950 of Weiyue's intervals will contain the mean transaction amount of all transactions in `txn`.

By the definition of a 95% confidence interval, 95% of our 1000 confidence intervals will contain the true mean transaction amount in the population from which our samples were drawn. In this case, the population is the `txn` DataFrame. So, 950 of the confidence intervals will contain the mean transaction amount of all transactions in `txn`, which is what the the second answer choice says. 

We can’t conclude that the first answer choice is correct because our original sample was taken from `txn`, not from all transactions ever. We don’t know whether our resamples will be representative of all transactions ever. The third option is incorrect because we have no way of knowing what the first random sample looks like from a statistical standpoint. The last statement is not true because $M$ concerns the width of the confidence interval, and therefore is unrelated to the statistics computed in each resample. For example, if the mean of each resample is around 100, but the width of each confidence interval is around 5, we shouldn’t expect $$M to be in any of the confidence intervals.

<average>55</average>


# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Weiyue repeats his entire process, except this time, he changes his
sample size in step 1 from 100 to 400. Let $B$ be the mean of the widths
of the 1,000 new confidence intervals he creates.

What is the relationship between $M$ and $B$?

( ) $M < B$
( ) $M \approx B$
( ) $M > B$

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer:** $M > B$

As the sample size increases, the width of the confidence intervals will decrease, so $M > B$.

<average>70</average>



# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Weiyue repeats his entire process once again. This time, he still uses a
sample size of 100 in step 1, but instead of creating 95% confidence
intervals in step 3, he creates 99% confidence intervals. Let $C$ be the
mean of the widths of the 1,000 new confidence intervals he generates.

What is the relationship between $M$ and $C$?

( ) $M < C$ 
( ) $M \approx C$ 
( ) $M > C$

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer:** $M < C$

All else equal (note that the sample size is the same as it was in question 10.1), 99% confidence intervals will always be wider than 95% confidence intervals on the same data, so $M < C$.

<average>85</average>


# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Weiyue repeats his entire process one last time. This time, he still
uses a sample size of 100 in step 1, and creates 95% confidence
intervals in step 3, but instead of bootstrapping, he uses the Central
Limit Theorem to generate his confidence intervals. Let $D$ be the mean
of the widths of the 1,000 new confidence intervals he creates.

What is the relationship between $M$ and $D$?

( ) $M < D$ 
( ) $M \approx D$ 
( ) $M > D$

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer:** $M \approx D$

Confidence intervals generated from the  Central Limit Theorem will be approximately the same as those generated from bootstrapping, so $M$ is approximately equal to $D$. 

<average>90</average>


# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB