# BEGIN PROB

On Reddit, Yutian read that 22% of all online transactions are
fraudulent. She decides to test the following hypotheses:

-   **Null Hypothesis**: The proportion of online transactions that are
    fraudulent is **0.22**.

-   **Alternative Hypothesis**: The proportion of online transactions
    that are fraudulent is not **0.22**.

To test her hypotheses, she decides to create a **95%** confidence
interval for the proportion of online transactions that are fraudulent
using the Central Limit Theorem.

Unfortunately, she doesn't have access to the entire `txn` DataFrame;
rather, she has access to a simple random sample of `txn` of size $n$.
In her sample, the proportion of transactions that are fraudulent is
**0.2** (or equivalently, $\frac{1}{5}$).

# BEGIN SUBPROB

The width of Yutian's confidence interval is of the form
$$\frac{c}{5 \sqrt{n}}$$

where $n$ is the size of her sample and $c$ is some positive integer.
What is the value of $c$? Give your answer as an integer.

*Hint: Use the fact that in a collection of 0s and 1s, if the proportion
of values that are 1 is $p$, the standard deviation of the collection is
$\sqrt{p(1-p)}$.*

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer:** 8

First, we can calculate the standard deviation of the sample using the given formula: $\sqrt{0.2\cdot(1-0.2)} = \sqrt{0.16}= 0.4$. Additionally, we know that the width of a 95% confidence interval for a population mean (including a proportion) is approximately $\frac{4 * \text{sample SD}}{\sqrt{n}}$, since 95% of the data of a normal distribution falls within two standard deviations of the mean on either side. Now, plugging the sample standard deviation into this formula, we can set this expression equal to the given formula for the width of the confidence interval: $\frac{c}{5 \sqrt{n}} = \frac{4 * 0.4}{\sqrt{n}}$. We can multiply both sides by $\sqrt{n}$, and we’re left with $\frac{c}{5} = 4 * 0.4$. Now, all we have to do is solve for $c$ by multiplying both sides by 5, which gives $c = 8$.

<average>59</average>


# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

There is a positive integer $J$ such that:

-   If $n < J$, Yutian will fail to reject her null hypothesis at the
    **0.05** significance level.

-   If $n > J$, Yutian will reject her null hypothesis at the **0.05**
    significance level.

What is the value of $J$? Give your answer as an integer.

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer:** 1600

Here, we have to use the formula for the endpoints of the 95% confidence interval to see what the largest value of $n$ is such that 0.22 will be contained in the interval. The endpoints are given by $\text{sample mean} \pm 2 * \frac{\text{sample SD}}{\sqrt{n}}$. Since the null hypothesis is that the proportion is 0.22 (which is greater than our sample mean), we only need to work with the right endpoint for this question. Plugging in the values that we have, the right endpoint is given by $0.2 + 2 * \frac{0.4}{\sqrt{n}}$. Now we must find a value of $n$ which satisfies the inequality $0.2 + 2 * \frac{0.4}{\sqrt{n}} \geq 0.22$, and since we’re looking for the smallest such value of $n$ (i.e, the last $n$ for which this inequality holds), we can simply set the two sides equal to each other, and solve for $n$. From $0.2 + 2 * \frac{0.4}{\sqrt{n}} = 0.22$, we can subtract 0.2 from both sides, then multiply both sides by $\sqrt{n}$, and divide both sides by 0.02 (from 0.22 - 0.2). This yields $\sqrt{n} = \frac{2 * 0.4}{0.02} = \sqrt{n} = 40$, which implies that $n$ is 1600.

<average>21</average>



# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB