---
lecture: 15
---

# BEGIN PROB

A sleepy cat is a cat that naps for at least 5 hours. You want to
estimate the proportion of **all** sleepy cats that consumed at least 10
treats, based on the data in `cats`.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Fill in the blanks below to generate an array of 10000 bootstrapped
estimates for this proportion.

    estimates = np.array([])
    subset = cats[__(a)__]
    for i in np.arange(10000):
        resample = __(b)__
        proportion = __(c)__ / __(d)__
        estimates = np.append(estimates, proportion)


# BEGIN SOLUTION

`(a)`: `cats.get("nap time") >= 5` \
`(b)`: `subset.sample(subset.shape[0], replace=True)` \
`(c)`: `resample[resample.get("treats") >= 10].shape[0]` \
`(d)`: `resample.shape[0]`

<average>65</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Fill in the blanks below so that `treats_interval` evaluates to a 90%
confidence interval for the true proportion of all sleepy cats that
consumed at least 10 treats.

    ci_low = np.percentile(estimates, __(a)__)
    ci_high = np.percentile(estimates, __(b)__)
    treats_interval = [ci_low, ci_high]

# BEGIN SOLUTION


`(a)`: `5` \
`(b)`: `95`


<average>93</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Suppose `treats_interval` evaluates to `[0.10, 0.15]`. Select all true
statements.

[ ] Between $10\%$ and $15\%$ of all sleepy cats also consumed at least $10$ treats.
[ ] If we increase our confidence level to $95\%$, then the width of our interval will decrease and our interval will become more precise.
[ ] There is a 90% chance that the true proportion of all sleepy cats that consumed at least $10$ treats is between $10\%$ and $15\%$.
[ ] None of the above.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer**: None of the above.

<average>85</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB