# BEGIN PROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

The code below defines a variable called `month formed`.

```py
month_formed = (storms.groupby(["Name", "Year"]).min()
                      .reset_index()
                      .groupby("Month").count()
                      .get("Name"))
```

What is the data type of `month formed`?

( ) int
( ) str
( ) Series
( ) Dataframe
( ) None of these


# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** Series 

It's helpful to analyze the code piece by piece. The first part is doing `.groupby(["Name", "Year"]).min()`, which will index both `"Name"` and `"Year"` and find the minimum values in the DataFrame. We are still working with a DataFrame at this point. The next part `.reset_index()` makes `"Name"` and `"Year"` columns again. Again, this is a DataFrame. The next part `.groupby("Month").count()` makes `"Month"` the index and gets the count for each element in the DataFrame. Finally, `.get("Name")` isolates the `"Name"` column and returns to `month_formed` a series.

<average>81</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB




# BEGIN SUBPROB
Which of the following expressions evaluates to the proportion of storms in our data
set that were formed in August?

( ) `month_formed.loc[8]/month_formed.sum()`
( ) `month_formed.iloc[7]/month_formed.sum()`
( ) `month_formed[month_formed.index == 8].shape[0]/month_formed.sum()`
( ) `month_formed[month_formed.get("Month") == 8].shape[0]/month_formed.sum()`


# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** `month_formed.loc[8]/month_formed.sum()`

**Option 1:** Recall that August is the eigth month, so using `.loc[8]` will find the label 8 in `month_formed`, which will be `counts` or the number of storms formed in August. Dividing the number of storms formed in August by the total number of storms formed will give us the proportion of storms that formed in August.

**Option 2:** It is important to realize that the months have become the index of `month_formed`, but that doesn't necessarily mean that the index starts in January or that there have been storm during a month before August. For example if there were no storms in March then there would be no 3 in the index. Recall `.iloc[7]` is indexing for whatever is in position 7, but because the index is not guaranteed we cannot be certain the `.iloc[7]` will return August.

**Option 3:** The code: `month_formed[month_formed.index == 8].shape[0]` will return 1. Finding the index at month 8 will give us August, but doing `.shape[0]` gives us the number of rows in August, which should only be 1 because of `groupby`. This means that Option 3's line of code will not give us the number of storms that formed in August, which makes it impossible to find the propotion.

**Option 4:** Remember that `months_formed`'s index is `"Month"`. This means that there is no column `"Month"`, so the code will error, meaning it cannot give us proportions of storms that formed in August.

<average>35</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB
# END PROB