# BEGIN PROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Hurricane forecasters use complex models to simulate hurricanes. Suppose a forecaster
simulates 10,000 hurricanes and keeps track of the state where each hurricane made
landfall in an array called `landfalls`. Each element of `landfalls` is a string, which
is either the full name of a US state or the string `"None"` if the storm did not hit land
in the simulation.

The forecaster wants to use the results of their simulation to estimate the probability
that a given storm hits Georgia. Write one line of Python code that approximates this
probability, using the data in `landfalls`.


# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** `np.count_nonzero(landfalls == "Georgia") / 10000`

The probability would be the number of times the storm hit Georgia over the total number of simulated hurricanes, which is 10000. Since each element of `landfills` is a string, we can use `np.count_nonzero()` to give us all of the times the storm hits Georgia in the simulation. Recall `np.count_nonzero()` determines whether the elements are "truthy", so if the String was equal to `"Georgia"` then it would be counted, and otherwise would be ignored. Then to calculate the probability we simply divide the number of times the storm hit Georgia by 10000.

<average>34</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB




# BEGIN SUBPROB

Oh no, a hurricane is forming! Experts predict that the storm has a 45% chance of
hitting Florida, a 25% chance of hitting Georgia, a 5% chance of hitting South Carolina,
and a 25% chance of not making landfall at all.

Fast forward: the storm made landfall. Assuming the expert predictions were correct, what is the probability that the storm hit Georgia? Give your answer as a **fully simplified fraction** between 0 and 1.

**Hint:** The answer is not $\frac{1}{4}$, or 25%.


# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** \frac{1}{3}

Originally, we were unsure if the hurricane would make landfall. Now that it has our total percentage has changed: $100\% - 25\% = 75\%$. Remember probability should always add up to 100%. So our new total is 75%. We can calculate the probability that a storm hits Georgia by doing: $\frac{25\%}{75\%} = \frac{1}{3}$.

<average>36</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB
# END PROB