# BEGIN PROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Now we want to use `direction_array` to find the number of times that Katrina ’05 changed
directions, or moved in a different direction than it was moving immediately prior. For
example, if `direction_array` contained values
                        `"NW"`, `"NE"`, `"NE"`, `"NE"`, `"NW"`,
we would say that there were two direction changes (once from `"NW"` to `"NE"`, and another
from `"NE"` to `"NW"`).
Fill in the blanks so that `direction_changes` evaluates to the number of times that Katrina
’05 changed directions.

```py
    direction_changes = 0
    for j in ____(a)____:
        if ____(b)____:
            direction_changes = direction_changes + 1
```

What goes in blank (a)? 

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** `np.arange(1, len(direction_array))`

We want the for loop to execute the length of the given `direction_array` because we compare all of the directions inside of it. The line of code: `np.arange(1, len(direction_array))` will create an array that is as large as the `direction_array`, which allows us to use `j` to access different indexes inside of `direction_array`.

<average>36</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB



# BEGIN SUBPROB

What goes in blank (b)?

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** `direction_array[j] != direction_array[j-1]`

We want to increase `direction_changes` whenever there is a switch between directions. This means we want to see if `direction_array[j]` is **not** equal to `direction_array[j-1]`.

It is important to look at how the `for` loop is running because it starts at 1 and ends at `len(direction_array) - 1` (this is because `np.arange` has an exclusive stop). Let's say we wanted to compare the direction at index 5 and index 4. We can easily get the element at index 5 by doing `direction_array[j]` and then get the element at index 4 by doing `direction_array[j-1]`. We can then check if they are **not** equal to each other by using the `!=` operation.

When the `if` statement activates it will then update the `direction_changes`

<average>64</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB



# BEGIN SUBPROB

There are 34 rows in `katrina_05`. Based on this information alone, what is the maxi-
mum possible value of `direction_changes`?

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** `32`

Note: The maximum amount of direction changes would mean that every other direction would be different from each other.

It is also important to remember **what** we are feeding into `direction_changes`. We are feeding in the output from `direction_array` from Problem 7. Due to the `for`-loops throughout this section we can see the maximum amount of changes by 2. Once in `direction_array` and once in `direction_changes`.

For a more visual explanation, let's imagine `katrina_05` has these values:
`[(7, 3), (6, 4), (9, 2), (8, 7), (3, 5)]`

We would then feed this into Problem 7's `direction_array` to get an array that looks like this:
`["NE", "SW", "SE", "NW"]`

Finally, we will feed this array into `direction_changes`. We can see that there are three changes: one from `"NE"` to `"SW"`, one from `"SW"` to `"SE"`, and one from `"SE"` to `"NW"`.

This means that the maximum amount of `direction_changes` is $34-1-1 = 32$. We subtract 1 for each step in the process because we lose a value due to the `for`-loops.


<average>36</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB



# END PROB