# BEGIN PROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

The DataFrame directors contains historical information about the director of the National
Hurricane Center (NHC). A preview of directors is shown below. 

INSERT PICTURE HERE ZOE

We would like to merge `storms` with `directors` to produce a DataFrame with the same
information as `storms` plus one additional column with the name of the director who was
leading the NHC at the time of each storm. However, when we try to merge with the
command shown below, Python fails to produce the desired DataFrame.

```py
directors.merge(storms, left_on="Tenure", right_on="Year")
```

Which of the following is a problem with our attempted merge? **Select all that apply.**

[ ] We cannot merge these two DataFrames because they have two completely different sets of column names.
[ ] We want to add information about the directors to storms, so we need to use storms as our left DataFrame. The command should start with `storms.merge(directors)`.
[ ] The `directors` DataFrame does not contain enough information to determine who was the director of the NHC at the time of each storm.
[ ] The `"Tenure"` column of directors contains a different data type than the "Year" column of storms.


# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** Option 3 and Option 4

The code is merging `'storms'` with `'directors'` by having the column `'Tenure'` on the left and the column `'Year'` on the right. `left_on` and `right_on` tell Python where to join the two columns.



For Option 3, we miss information on what directors are serving during the time of what storms occur.

For Option 3, `"Tenure"` contains a duration that starts year 1 and ends at the last year, so its data type doesn't directly give us an integer number. While the data type for `"Year"` is `int`, which tells exactly the year a storm happens.

Option 1 is incorrect because you may still merge two dataframes with different columns names using `left_on` and `right_on`.

Option 2 is incorrect because the order doesn't make an impact, we are only asked to merge `storms` with `directors`. 


# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB