---
lecture: 9
---

# BEGIN PROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Fill in the blanks so that the sentence below correctly describes the meaning of
`mystery`.

“The \_\_(i)\_\_  \_\_(ii)\_\_ of the \_\_(iii)\_\_ \_\_(iv)\_\_ .”

```py 
mystery = kart.groupby("Region").mean().get("Ranking").min()
```

What goes in (i)?

( ) average
( ) median
( ) lowest
( ) highest

What goes in (ii)?

( ) university
( ) team
( ) region
( ) ranking

What goes in (iii)?

( ) average
( ) median
( ) worst
( ) best

What goes in (iv)?

( ) university
( ) team
( ) region
( ) ranking

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:**

- **\(i\)** average
- **\(ii\)** ranking
- **\(iii\)** best
- **\(iv\)** region

`mystery` groups by the `"Region"`, calculates the mean values and retrieves the `"Ranking"` column. So we have the average ranking for all the regions. Now we retrieve the minimum value of this column. Note that in this context, a lower average ranking indicates a better team. Hence, we get “the average ranking of the best region”. 

<average>67</average>
<average>95</average>
<average>14</average>
<average>95</average>


# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Fill in the blank in the code snippet below so that `my_bool` is `True` if there is
at least one university with two teams in the same division, and `False` if there are no
universities with two teams in the same division. Your answer must include the use of
`.groupby()` in order to receive credit.


```py 
my_df = ______
```
```py 
my_bool = my_df.get("Team").max() > 1
```

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** `kart.groupby(["University", "Division"]).count()`

In the second line of code, we get the column `“Team”` and check whether its maximum value is greater than 1. In other words, it is checking whether there are any universities with multiple teams in a division. This means that our input DataFrame needs to have a numeric column `"Team"` that denotes the number of teams for each university for each division. This means we need to use `groupby()`. Since we want this information for each university within each division, we need to groupby both `“University”` and `“Division”`. Then, because we want the number of teams within each division within each university, you want to apply the `count()` aggregate. Now all the columns in this DataFrame contain the number of teams per division per university since count notes the number of observations in each category. 

From here, `my_bool` can take this transformed DataFrame, get the `“Team”` column that contains the number of teams per division per university and check if any of them are greater than 1 (by simply getting the maximum value of this column) and checking whether it is greater than 1.

<average>57</average>

# END SOLUTION
# END SUBPROB


# END PROB

