# BEGIN PROB

You want to test the following hypotheses:

**Null Hypothesis:** Everyone who applies for an internship at Google
has **a 20% chance** of receiving a job offer, independently of all
other applicants.

**Alternative Hypothesis:** Everyone who applies for an internship at
Google has **a more than 20% chance** of receiving a job offer,
independently of all other applicants.

To test these hypotheses, you collected information from 50 applicants
and found that 16 of them received a job offer.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Fill in the blanks in the code below to calculate the p-value for a
hypothesis test where the test statistic is the number of applicants,
out of 50, who receive a job offer.

    offers_array = np.array([])

    for i in np.arange(10000):
        num_offers = ___(a)___
        offers_array = ___(b)___

    p_value = ___(c)___
    p_value

`(a)`: `(b)`: `(c)`:

# BEGIN SOLUTION

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Suppose the p-value comes out to $0.03$. What conclusion do we draw?

( ) We reject the null hypothesis at both the $0.01$ and $0.05$
significance levels.

( ) We fail to reject the null hypothesis at the $0.01$ significance
level and we reject the\
null hypothesis at the $0.05$ significance level.

( ) We reject the null hypothesis at the $0.01$ significance level and
we fail to reject the\
null hypothesis at the $0.05$ significance level.

( ) We fail to reject the null hypothesis at both the $0.01$ and $0.05$
significance levels.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB # BEGIN SUBPROB

Which of the following test statistics would have also been appropriate
to test these hypotheses? Select all that apply.

[ ] Number of applicants, out of 50, who do not receive a job offer.

[ ] Proportion of applicants that receive a job offer.

[ ] The sum of the absolute differences between $[0.2, 0.8]$ and the
distribution of\
applicants into two categories: those getting a job offer and those not
getting a job\
offer.

[ ] Absolute difference between 20 and the number of applicants, out
of 50, who receive\
a job offer.

[ ] None of the above.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB