# BEGIN PROB

As we saw in the last problem, children aged $12$ to $18$ (inclusive)
have tickets entered into a drawing at the reaping. $12$-year-olds have
one ticket, $13$-year-olds have two tickets, $14$-year-olds have three
tickets, and so on, gaining one ticket per year of age.

In this problem, we'll look at the ages of all boys from District $3$
and determine the probability that a boy of a certain age is selected in
the drawing.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Suppose that there are only five boys from District $3$ and their ages
are as follows (in no particular order):

::: center 
$17, 12, 15, 14, 12$. 
:::

Determine the probability that a $17$-year-old is selected in the
drawing.

Give your answer as an **unsimplified fraction** where the numerator is
the number of tickets corresponding to a $17$-year-old and the
denominator is the total number of tickets.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer**: $6/15$

A short cut we can use to check how many tickets each kid gets is just taking their age and subtracting 11. If we do this for all of the listed kids given their ages, we get a total of 15 tickets. Furthermore, using our shortcut, the number of tickets allocated to the 17 year old would be 6. Thus, the unsimplified fraction is $6/15$.

<average>88</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Now, we'll solve the problem more generally. Fill in the blanks below to
define a function `pick_prob` that takes as input an array containing
the ages of all boys in District $3$, and a single age between $12$ and
$18$ (inclusive). The function should return the probability of randomly
selecting a boy of that age during the reaping.

```py
def pick_prob(ages, one_age):
    age_tickets = __(a)__
    total_tickets = __(b)__
    return age_tickets / total_tickets
```

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer**:

`(a)`: `sum((ages == one_age) * (one_age - 11))`

`(b)`: `(ages - 11).sum()`

In part a we find how many tickets come from boys of the given age by taking the sum of all matches within the input and multiplied by the corresponding ticket value for that age. 

In part b, to find the total number of tickets, we take all values in the input and calculate the corresponding number of tickets then add them all up.

<average>70</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Using `pick_prob`, write one line of code that evaluates to the
probability that a $14$-year-old boy is **not chosen** during the
reaping if the boys in District $3$ are aged $12$, $14$, $14$, $15$,
$17$, and $18$.

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer**: `1 - pick_prob(np.array([12, 14, 14, 15, 17, 18]), 14)`

To solve this problem we can simply take the complement of the probability that we do select a $14$-year-old boy during the reaping. With the given ages of the boys in the problem statement, we can use the function we defined above to calculate this. As a result, to arrive at our answer we can simply take `1 - pick_prob(np.array([12, 14, 14, 15, 17, 18]), 14)`.

<average>88</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB