---
lecture: 10
---

# BEGIN PROB

After being selected at the reaping, tributes are transported to the
Capitol to prepare for the Hunger Games. While they are there, they
attend a training camp to practice skills that might be helpful in the
arena. At the training camp, there are 8 different stations such as
camouflage, knife throwing, archery, plant identification, etc. At each
of the 8 stations, tributes are scored on their skills from 1 to 10.

These 8 scores are combined into an overall score as follows:

-   Count the number of stations at which the tribute scored **more than
    5**, demonstrating basic proficiency.

-   Count the number of stations at which the tribute scored **more than
    8**, demonstrating expertise.

-   Add these counts together, capping the overall score at 12. This
    means that if the sum is larger than 12, the tribute earns the
    maximum possible score of 12.

Overall scores therefore range from 0 to 12. Which of the following
functions takes as input an array containing a tribute's 8 scores from
the stations and correctly outputs their overall score? Select all that
apply.

**Hint:** In Python, `True + True` evaluates to `2`.

```py
def function1(stations):
        overall = 0
        for score in stations:
            if score > 5:
                overall = overall + 1
            if score > 8:
                overall = overall + 1
            if overall >= 12:
                return 12
        return overall
```

```py
def function2(stations):
    overall = 0
    for score in stations:
        if score > 5:
            overall = overall + 1
        elif score > 8:
            overall = overall + 2
    return min(overall, 12)
```

```py
def function3(stations):
    overall = 0
    for i in np.arange(8):
        if stations[i] > 8:
            overall = overall + 2
        elif stations[i] > 5:
            overall = overall + 1
    return min(overall, 12)
```

```py
def function4(stations):
    overall = 0
    for score in stations:
        add = score > 5
        add = (score > 8) + add
        overall = overall + add
    return min(overall, 12)
```

```py
def function5(stations):
    return min(12, np.count_nonzero(stations > 5) + np.count_nonzero(stations > 8))
```

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer**: Function 1, 3, 4, 5

The best way to go about this problem is individually check each function for correctness. 

Function 1 correctly checks for scores > 5 and adds 1 for each valid instance. It then checks again if the same score is > 8 and adds another 1 to the total count. Finally there is a cap set to 12 to use if needed.

Function 2 uses the `elif` conditional so if score > 5, it skips the score > 8 check. This means that scores > 8 only get the plus 1 rather than the plus 2. Thus, this function is incorrect.

Function 3 iterates through all stations if the score > 8 it adds 2 otherwise (using `elif`), if the score is > 5, adds 1. This is capped at 12 using the min function. Thus, this is a correct implementation.

Function 4 is correct because it adds 1 point if the score is greater than 5 and then adds 1 more point if its also greater than 8. This is exactly what we are looking for in the problem statement.

Function 5 provides an elegant one-liner for the same problem using the count_nonzero function to count the number of scores greater than 5 and then adding that the to scores greater than 8. Together this does the same thing as adding 1 for each score between 5 and 8, and adding 2 for scores greater than 8.

<average>75</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END PROB
