# BEGIN PROB

Residents of Panem not participating in the Hunger Games can sponsor
tributes to help them survive. Sponsors purchase supplies and have them
delivered to tributes in the arena via parachute. Haymitch is the mentor
for the tributes from District 12, Katniss and Peeta. Part of his job is
to recruit sponsors to buy necessary supplies for Katniss and Peeta
while they are in the arena.

In his advertising to potential sponsors, Haymitch claims that in 100
randomly selected parachutes delivered to tributes in past Hunger Games,
the supplies were distributed into categories as follows:

::: center
**Haymitch's Distribution**\

  **Category**   Medical   Food   Weapons   Shelter   Other   **Total**
  -------------- --------- ------ --------- --------- ------- -----------
  **Count**      $40$      $30$   $10$      $15$      $5$     $100$
:::

Data scientists at the Capitol know that across all past Hunger Games,
there have been 2000 parachute deliveries of supplies to tributes.
Further, they have recorded the following count of how many of these
parachutes' supplies fell into each category:

::: center
**The Capitol's Distribution**\

  **Category**   Medical   Food    Weapons   Shelter   Other   **Total**
  -------------- --------- ------- --------- --------- ------- -----------
  **Count**      $700$     $500$   $300$     $300$     $200$   $2000$
:::

In this problem, we will assess whether Haymitch is making an accurate
claim by determining whether his sample of 100 parachutes looks like a
random sample from the Capitol's distribution.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Which of the following are appropriate test statistics for this hypothesis test? Select all that apply.

[ ] The mean difference in proportions between Haymitch's distribution and the Capitol's distribution.

[ ] The maximum absolute difference in proportions between Haymitch's distribution and the Capitol's distribution.

[ ] The average absolute difference in proportions between Haymitch' distribution and the Capitol's distribution.

[ ] The sum of squared differences in proportions between Haymitch's distribution and the Capitol's distribution.

[ ] The correlation coefficient between Haymitch's proportion and the Capitol's proportion, for each category.

[ ] None of the above.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

The distributions from the previous page are repeated below for your
reference.

::: center
**Haymitch's Distribution**\

  **Category**   Medical   Food   Weapons   Shelter   Other   **Total**
  -------------- --------- ------ --------- --------- ------- -----------
  **Count**      $40$      $30$   $10$      $15$      $5$     $100$
:::

::: center
**The Capitol's Distribution**\

  **Category**   Medical   Food    Weapons   Shelter   Other   **Total**
  -------------- --------- ------- --------- --------- ------- -----------
  **Count**      $700$     $500$   $300$     $300$     $200$   $2000$
:::

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Suppose we decide to use total variation distance (TVD) as the test
statistic for this hypothesis test. Calculate the TVD between Haymitch's
distribution and the Capitol's distribution. Give your answer as an
exact decimal.

::: center
:::

# BEGIN SOLUTION

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Suppose you run a simulation to generate 1000 TVDs between the Capitol's
distribution and samples of size 100 randomly drawn from that
distribution. You determine that the TVD you calculated in part $(b)$ is
in the 96th percentile of your simulated TVDs. Which of the following
correctly interprets this result? Select all that apply.

[ ] About 96% of simulated TVDs are less than the one you calculated in part $(b)$.

[ ] Haymitch's distribution is 96% more accurate than the Capitol's distribution.

[ ] If Haymitch's sample were a random sample from the Capitol's distribution, getting a TVD greater than or equal to the one you calculated in part $(b)$ would happen about 4% of the time.

[ ] If Haymitch's sample were a random sample from the Capitol's distribution, getting a TVD greater than or equal to the one you calculated in part $(b)$ would happen about 96% of the time.

[ ] None of the above.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB