# BEGIN PROB

Before getting selected for the Hunger Games, Katniss often spent her
days hunting with her friend Gale. Hunting is illegal in Panem, so
Katniss and Gale sold their poached game at a black market known as The
Hob, always splitting the profits equally, even if one person's kills
were worth more than the other's.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Suppose Katniss and Gale hunted together three times. The values of each
person's kills are recorded in `katniss_sample` and `gale_sample`,
respectively. Their individual profits are recorded in `average_sample`.
Calculate the mean and variance of each of these three samples. Give all
of your answers as integers.

  **Sample**                              **Mean**     **Variance**
  ------------------------------------ -------------- --------------
  `a.) katniss_sample = [47, 44, 50]`
  `b.) gale_sample = [25, 28, 28]`
  `c.) average_sample = [36, 36, 39]`

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer**:

`a.)` mean: $\frac{47+44+50}{3}$ = $\frac{141}{3}$ = $47$; variance: $\frac{(47−47)^2+(44−47)^2+(50−47)^2}{3}$ = $\frac{(0 + 9 + 9)}{3}$ = $6$

`b.)` mean: $\frac{(25+28+28)}{3}$ = $\frac{81}{3}$ = $27$; variance = $\frac{(25−27)^2+(28−27)^2+(28−27)^2}{3}$ = $\frac{(4 + 1 + 1)}{3}$ = $2$

`c.)` mean: $\frac{(36+36+39)}{3}$ = $\frac{111}{3}$ = $37$;  variance: $\frac{[(36−37)^2+(36−37)^2+(39−37)^2]}{3}$ = $\frac{(1 + 1 + 4)}{3}$ = $2$

<average>16</average>


# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Suppose that the value of Katniss's kills are normally distributed with
mean $\$50$ and SD $\$3$, and the value of Gale's kills are
independently normally distributed with mean $\$30$ and SD $\$2$.

On one hunting trip, Katniss's kills are worth twice as much as Gale's,
but the value of her kills in standard units is the same as the value of
Gale's kills in standard units. Determine the value of Gale's kills on
this hunting trip. Give your answer as an integer.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer**: 10

If Katniss's kills ($K$) are worth twice Gale's kills ($G$) we can say that $K = 2G$. To get the standardized values of each of their kills we can use the formula:

$\frac{\text{Kills on Trip} - \text{Mean Kills for Person}}{\text{Std Kills for Person}}$
 
(This is just the regular standardization formula put in the context of this problem). 
  
Furthermore, we know that their standardized values are equal from the problem statement, so after subtituting values in we get the below equality:

$\frac{2G - 50}{3} = \frac{G - 30}{2}$

Using some basic cross multiplication we can attempt to solve for $G$ now. 

$4G - 100 = 3G - 90$; $G = 10$

<average>85</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Now, suppose that we no longer know whether the distribution of the
value of Katniss's kills is normal. All we know about this distribution
is that it has mean $\$50$ and SD $\$3$.

Which of the following statements are true? Select all that apply.

[ ] It is possible that Katniss's kills are never valued between $\$48$ and $\$52$.
[ ] No more than $75\%$ of Katniss's kills are between $\$44$ and $\$56$ in value.
[ ] `scipy.stats.norm.cdf(50)` gives an approximation for the fraction of Katniss's kills that are below $\$50$ in value.
[ ] None of these.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer**: Choice 1 only

Choice 1 could be correct assuming our distribution is not normal, as there could be some sorta two point distribution that has no area under $47 to $53 meaning that Katniss's kills are never valued in that range.

Choice 2 is False the range given in this choice encompasses 2 standard deviations. Per Chebyshev if we are 2 stds from the mean, at least 75% of the data must lie in our range, meaning there could be more than 75% of the data in this range.

Choice 3 is False aswell because the norm cdf required the assumption of normality.

Choice 4 is incorrect because the first statement is true.

<average>76</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB