# BEGIN PROB

You want to know if there is a significant difference in the sale prices
of `"road"` and `"hybrid"` bikes using a permutation test. The
hypotheses are:

-   **Null**: The prices of `"road"` and `"hybrid"` bikes come from the
    same distribution.

-   **Alt**: On average, `"hybrid"` bikes are more expensive than
    `"road"` bikes.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Using the `bikes` DataFrame and the difference in group means (in the order `"road"` minus `"hybrid"`) as your test statistic, fill in the
blanks so the code below generates 10,000 simulated statistics for the permutation test.

    def find_diff(df):
        group_means = df.groupby("shuffled").mean().get("price")
        return group_means.loc["road"] - group_means.loc["hybrid"]

    some_bikes = __(x)__
    diffs = np.array([])
    for i in np.arange(10000):
        shuffled_df = some_bikes.assign(shuffled = __(y)__)  
        diffs = np.append(diffs, find_diff(shuffled_df))


# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer**:

(x): `bikes[(bikes.get("style") == "road") | (bikes.get("style") == "hybrid")]`\
(y): `np.random.permutation(some bikes.get("style"))`

<average>54</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Do large values of the observed statistic make us lean towards the null
or alternative hypothesis?

( ) Null Hypothesis 
( ) Alternative Hypothesis

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer**: Null Hypothesis

<average>63</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Suppose the p-value for this test evaluates to $0.04$. What can you
conclude based on this? Select all that apply.

[ ] Reject the null hypothesis at a significance level of 0.01.
[ ] Fail to reject the null hypothesis at a significance level of 0.01.
[ ] Reject the null hypothesis at a significance level of 0.05.
[ ] Fail to reject the null hypothesis at a significance level of 0.05

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer**: Fail to reject the null hypothesis at a significance level of 0.01, Reject the null hypothesis at a significance level of 0.05.

<average>48</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB