# BEGIN PROB

Bianca and Ella are considering where to travel over their winter break. While they love the snow, they want to be near the coast and they get altitude sickness easily.
# BEGIN SUBPROB

<!-- **(7 pts)** -->

Fill in the blanks to make a new DataFrame, `trip`, that has a row for each date and coastal city pair, such that the `"snowfall"` column contains the snowfall for that date in that coastal city.

```py
trip = snow[__(a)__].groupby(__(b)__).(__(c)__)
```

<!-- **(a):**

**(b):** -->

Fill in the blank for **(a)**, **(b)**, and **(c)**.

For **(c)**, please select all aggregation methods that can go in blank.

[ ] `median()`
[ ] `min()`
[ ] `count()`
[ ] `max()`
[ ] `sum()`

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer (a):** `snow.get("coastal")`

**Answer (b):** `["date", "city"]` (or any list that includes these two variables plus additional column names)

**Answer (c):** `median()`, `min()`, `max()`, `sum()`

Explanation (a): The `trip` DataFrame must contain date and coastal city pairs, which means that we must filter to only include coastal cities. Thus, we need to query `snow` according to the `"coastal"` column.

Explanation (b): Again, `trip` must contain all date and coastal city pairs. If we group by only **one** of date or coastal status, then we will lose data for pairs after the grouping. Thus, we must group by at least **both** `"date"` and `"city"`.

Explanation (c): Every choice except `count()` works to produce the snowfall for each date-coastal city pair. Because there is only one snowfall value per date-coastal city pair in `snow`, the median, min, max, and sum will all return the same numerical value.

For the same reason, note that `count()` doesn't work because it will output 1. This is not the snowfall for a date in a coastal city, so we can't use it.

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

<!-- **(4 pts)** -->

Bianca and Ella decide to travel to the coastal city with the lowest elevation. Fill in the blanks below so that the expression correctly evaluates to the name of that city.

```py
trip.__(d)___.reset_index().__(e)___.iloc[__(f)__]
```

<!-- **(d):**

**(e):**

**(f):** -->

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer (d):** `sort_values(by="elevation")`

**Answer (e):** `get("city")`

**Answer (f):** `0`

It's also fine to sort the other way in blank (d) and use $-1$ in blank (f).

Explanation (d): Recall that there is one entry in `snow` per date-city pair. When we create `trip` and aggregate using one of the **correct** functions in blank (c), this means that `"elevation"` data is preserved for that city. Since we want the cities with lowest elevation, we can thus sort by the `"elevation"` column in `trip`. (Either ascending or descending order works.)

Explanation (e): We need the **name** of the coastal city with lowest elevation, so after sorting, we must extract the city name from the `"city"` column.

Explanation (f): Depending on how you sorted in blank (d), we must now extract the entry associated with lowest elevation. If ascending order is used, this is the **first** entry in the sorted DataFrame: we use `iloc[0]`. If descending order is used, this is the **last** entry in the sorted DataFrame: we use `iloc[-1]`. (It may also be possible to use `iloc[trip.shape[0] - 1]`.)

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB