# BEGIN PROB

Recall that `flurry` is a simple random sample of 100 rows from `snow`.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

<!-- **(4 pts)** -->

Fill in the blanks in the code below so that `means` evaluates to an array of 5000 bootstrapped estimates for the mean `"snowfall"` value in `snow`.

```py
means = np.array([])
for i in np.arange(5000):
    resample = flurry.sample(___(a)___)
    means = np.append(means, __(b)__)
```

<!-- **(a):**

**(b):** -->

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer (a):** `100, replace=True` or `flurry.shape[0], replace=True`

**Answer (b):** `resample.get("snowfall").mean()`

Explanation (a): When bootstrapping, each resample must have the same size as the original sample and be taken with replacement.

Explanation (b): Since we are estimating mean `"snowfall"`, we must compute the corresponding quantity within each resample.

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

<!-- **(5 pts)** -->

Imagine we were to take 1000 new samples directly from `snow`, each of size 100, and compute the mean `"snowfall"` value for each sample. Which of the following gives a reasonable approximation for the standard deviation of this set of sample means? **Select all that apply.**

[ ] `np.std(snow.get("snowfall"))`
[ ] `np.std(snow.get("snowfall")) / np.sqrt(snow.shape[0])`
[ ] `np.std(snow.get("snowfall")) / 10`
[ ] `np.std(means)`
[ ] `np.std(means) / np.sqrt(5000)`

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** `np.std(snow.get("snowfall")) / 10` and `np.std(means)`

The `means` from (a) and the sample means of these 1000 new samples are approximating the true distribution of sample means for `"snowfall"`. From lecture, the sample mean and SD are likely to be close to the population mean and SD. Thus, the SD of `means` and the SD of the new collection of sample means will be similar to each other (because they are both approximating the same population parameter). The choice `np.std(means)` is correct.

We look for other options that approximate the SD of sample means distribution. From the original sample, note that this can be approximated as follows:

$$\frac{\text{Sample SD}}{\sqrt{\text{sample size}}}$$

Since our original sample is given by `snow.get("snowfall")`, the sample SD is given by `np.std(snow.get("snowfall"))`. We now need to divide by the square root of the sample size, which is given to be 100. Since $\sqrt{100} = 10$, it follows that `np.std(snow.get("snowfall")) / 10` is correct.

The other options are incorrect because they do not approximate the SD of the distribution of sample means.

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

<!-- **(4 pts)** -->

The following code prints a $C$% bootstrapped confidence interval for the mean `"snowfall"` value in `snow`, using the 5000 bootstrapped estimates stored in the array `means` and cutting off an equal amount from each tail.

```py
X = ___(a)___
ci_low = np.percentile(means, X)
ci_high = np.percentile(means, 24 * X)
print([ci_low, ci_high])
```

**(i.)** What goes in blank (a)? In other words, what is the value of the variable `X`? Give your answer as an **integer**.

**(ii.)** What is the value of $C$? In other words, what is the confidence level of the interval produced? Give your answer as an **integer**.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer (i.):** 4

Note that the values `X` and `24 * X` must be between 0 and 100. Furthermore, a bootstrapped $C$% confidence interval places equal probability mass in the left and right tails of the bootstrapped distribution. Here, this property can be expressed as follows:

$$|X - 0| = |100 - 24X|$$

Solving for $X$ yields:

$$X - 0 = 100 - 24X$$

$$25X = 100$$

$$X = 4$$

Indeed if $X = 4$, then $24X = 24(4) = 96$, such that $100 - 96 = 4$. This is a valid bootstrapped confidence interval.

**Answer (ii.):** 92

We saw that $X = 4$ in part (a). Our left endpoint corresponds to the 4th percentile. Our right endpoint corresponds to the 96th percentile. This means that $C = 96 - 4 = 92$.

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB
