# BEGIN PROB

Each city in `snow` is represented many times, across multiple days. Let the *maximum snowfall* of a city be the maximum snowfall on any single day recorded for that city. If we want to compute the *average maximum snowfall* of all cities on a continent, we would first compute the maximum snowfall of every city on that continent, then take the mean of the resulting values.

Using the above definitions, you want to test the following pair of hypotheses:

- **Null:** The average maximum snowfall is the same across Asian and North American cities.
- **Alternative:** The average maximum snowfall in Asian cities is **greater than** the average maximum snowfall in North American cities.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

<!-- **(6 pts)** -->

You decide to write a permutation test for the above hypotheses. Fill in the blanks of the code below to complete the permutation test and calculate a p-value.

```py
1.  cities = snow.groupby(__(a)__).__(b)__
2.  asia_na = cities[(cities.get("continent") == "Asia") |
3.                  (cities.get("continent") == "North America")]
4.
5.  def test_stat(shuffled):
6.      grouped = shuffled.groupby(__(c)__).__(d)__
7.      asia = grouped.get("snowfall").loc["Asia"]
8.      na = grouped.get("snowfall").loc["North America"]
9.      return __(e)__
10.
11. stats = np.array([])
12. for i in np.arange(10000):
13.     s = np.random.permutation(asia_na.get("snowfall"))
14.     shuffled = asia_na.assign(snowfall=s)
15.     stat = test_stat(shuffled)
16.     stats = np.append(stats, stat)
17.
18. extreme = (stats <= test_stat(cities))
19. p_value = np.count_nonzero(extreme) / 10000
```

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer (a):** `"city"`

**Answer (b):** `max()`

**Answer (c):** `"continent"`

**Answer (d):** `mean()`

**Answer (e):** `na - asia`

We are told that to compute average maximum snowfall, we must first compute the maximum snowfall per city, then take the average within each continent. The first step is completed in blanks (a) and (b), where we must first group by `"city"` then aggregate by the `max()` function. Blanks (c) and (d) correspond to the second step, where we must now group maximum snowfall by `"continent"` and take the average.

Blank (e) requires you to realize that the alternative hypothesis is phrased differently than how it is expressed in the code.

Let AMS stand for "average maximum snowfall." The alternative hypothesis is that Asian AMS is greater than North American AMS. However, the `extreme` variable in the code is checking for values that are **smaller** than the observed statistic `test_stat(cities)`. Thus, when Asian AMS is much larger than North American AMS, the quantity `na - asia` will be more negative and thus be considered more extreme under the alternative hypothesis. Blank (e) should be `na - asia`.

Note that `asia - na` is **wrong**, because this test statistic corresponds to a different alternative hypothesis: North American AMS is greater than Asian AMS.

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

<!-- **(4 pts)** -->

You also come up with the following pair of null and alternative hypotheses:

- **Null:** There is no difference in average maximum snowfall between Asian and North American cities.
- **Alternative:** There is a difference in average maximum snowfall between Asian and North American cities.

Suppose you can change **at most one line** in the code from part (a) to test these new hypotheses. Indicate the number of the line you should change and fully rewrite that line. Or, if you believe no changes to the code in part (a) are necessary, fill in the bubble provided and leave the boxes blank.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** Line number to change: 18 *or* No lines should be changed.

The code in this line should be changed to the following:

`extreme = (np.abs(stats) >= abs(test_stat(cities)))` or `extreme = (np.abs(stats) >= abs(test_stat(asia_na)))`

Another solution is to change line 9 to `return -abs(na-asia)` or `-abs(asia-na)`.

The alternative is now two-sided. To reflect this, we can either edit our test statistic in Line 9, or edit which values are considered extreme in Line 18.

The absolute difference is a good candidate for the new test statistic. However, since we are **only** changing the test statistic, we must be careful to remember that the `extreme` variable counts values that are **smaller** than the observed statistic. Thus, we must add a negative sign outside the absolute difference. This allows us to find evidence for the correct alternative hypothesis.

We can also change the `extreme` region. By taking absolute value of the difference test statistics, we are effectively covering both "tails" of our distribution and satisfying the two-sided nature of the alternative.

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

<!-- **(3 pts)** -->

You successfully complete a permutation test and obtain a p-value for the hypotheses in part (b). Call this p-value $p_b$. Unfortunately, your computer runs out of battery before you can compute a p-value for the hypotheses in part (a). Call this p-value $p_a$. Can you use $p_b$ to **approximate** $p_a$? If so, how?

( ) No. $p_b$ cannot be used to approximate $p_a$, because the maximum snowfall for each continent cannot be assumed to have a symmetric distribution.
( ) Yes. Divide $p_b$ in half to approximate $p_a$, because the difference of means is symmetric around 0 under the null hypothesis.
( ) Yes. Multiply $p_b$ by two to approximate $p_a$, because the difference of means is symmetric around 0 under the null hypothesis.
( ) Yes. $p_b$ is approximately the same as $p_a$, because the null hypothesis is the same in both tests.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** Yes. Divide $p_b$ in half to approximate $p_a$, because the difference of means is symmetric around 0 under the null hypothesis.

The test in (a) is one-sided, while the test in (b) is two-sided. Thus, the area corresponding to the "extreme" region will be twice as large on a two-sided test compared to a one-sided test. We must divide $p_b$ in half to approximate $p_a$.

The first choice ("No") has an irrelevant explanation, because the distribution of sample **average** maximum values is approximately normal, according to CLT. Hence, the distribution is symmetric. Because the distribution is symmetric, we expect approximately equal probability mass in the left and right tails, so dividing by 2 is a valid way to approximate $p_a$ from $p_b$.

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB
