# BEGIN PROB

The climate at UCSD in Winter 2035 looks much different than it looks today. On any given day in Winter 2035, there is a $\frac{2}{5}$ chance of precipitation. If there is precipitation, there is a $\frac{1}{2}$ chance of rain and a $\frac{1}{2}$ chance of snow (it never does both). Since rain and snow are both forms of precipitation, if there is no precipitation, it means that there is no rain or snow.

For all parts of this problem, give your answer as an **unsimplified mathematical expression**.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

<!-- **(3 pts)** -->

Coleman is still finishing up a few classes in Winter 2035 and is almost ready to graduate. He is planning out his week and needs to know if he should pack his mittens. In a 5-day week (Monday through Friday), what is the probability that it snows at least once?

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** $1 - \left(\dfrac{4}{5}\right)^5$

It is easier to find the probability that it doesn't snow on all 5 days. The probability that it doesn't snow on any given day is described by two disjoint cases.

1. There is no precipitation at all. Since the probability that there is precipitation is $2/5$, by complement rule we get:

$$\mathbb{P}(\text{no precipitation}) = 1 - \mathbb{P}(\text{precipitation}) = 1 - \frac{2}{5} = \frac{3}{5}$$

2. There is precipitation, but it rains instead of snows. This is given by the event that there is precipitation **and**, given that there is precipitation, it rains. In other words:

$$\mathbb{P}(\text{rains}) = \mathbb{P}(\text{precipitation}) \cdot \mathbb{P}(\text{rain} \mid \text{precipitation}) = \frac{2}{5} \cdot \frac{1}{2} = \frac{1}{5}$$

Since the two cases are disjoint (rain requires precipitation), we can sum the probabilities of the two cases and get

$$\mathbb{P}(\text{no snow}) = \frac{3}{5} + \frac{1}{5} = \frac{4}{5}.$$

(Note that, by complement rule, $\mathbb{P}(\text{snow}) = 1/5$.)

Thus, the probability that it doesn't snow on 5 days in a row is

$$\mathbb{P}(\text{no snow for 5 days}) = \left(\frac{4}{5}\right)^5$$

and by complement rule, the probability that it snows on at least one of those 5 days is:

$$\mathbb{P}(\text{snow on at least 1 of 5 days}) = 1 - \left(\frac{4}{5}\right)^5$$

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

<!-- **(3 pts)** -->

Coleman has no class on Friday, so he doesn't have to go out on that day. What is the probability that, in a 5-day week (Monday through Friday), it snows on Friday and not on any other day?

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** $\left(\dfrac{1}{5}\right)\left(\dfrac{4}{5}\right)^4$

It helps to use our computations from part (a). We can interpret the event as follows:

- **NO** snow on Monday $\Rightarrow \mathbb{P}(\text{no snow}) = \dfrac{4}{5}$
- **and** NO snow on Tuesday $\Rightarrow \mathbb{P}(\text{no snow}) = \dfrac{4}{5}$
- **and** NO snow on Wednesday $\Rightarrow \mathbb{P}(\text{no snow}) = \dfrac{4}{5}$
- **and** NO snow on Thursday $\Rightarrow \mathbb{P}(\text{no snow}) = \dfrac{4}{5}$
- **and** snow on Friday $\Rightarrow \mathbb{P}(\text{snow}) = \dfrac{1}{5}$

This results in

$$\mathbb{P}(\text{snow only on Friday}) = \frac{4}{5} \cdot \frac{4}{5} \cdot \frac{4}{5} \cdot \frac{4}{5} \cdot \frac{1}{5} = \left(\frac{4}{5}\right)^4\left(\frac{1}{5}\right)$$

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

<!-- **(3 pts)** -->

What is the probability that, in a 5-day week (Monday through Friday), it snows on exactly one day?

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** $5\left(\dfrac{1}{5}\right)\left(\dfrac{4}{5}\right)^4 = \left(\dfrac{4}{5}\right)^4$

In part (b), we computed the probability that it snows only on Friday. In part (c), the event is more general in that any of the 5 days can be considered. Observe that the probability in part (b) is not unique to Friday, but can be used to describe the probability of it snowing on exactly one day of the week, for any specific day of the week. Thus the probability that it snows on exactly **one** day, without choosing which day in advance, is

$$5\left(\frac{1}{5}\right)\left(\frac{4}{5}\right)^4 = \left(\frac{4}{5}\right)^4$$

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB
