# BEGIN PROB

Recall from the data description that the `"DOB"` column in `contacts`
contains the date of birth of everyone in your contacts list, as a
string formatted like `"MM-DD-YYYY"`.

Looking at the calendar, you see that today's date is May 3rd, 2024,
which is `"05-03-2024"`.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Using today's date, fill in the blanks in the function `age_today` so
that the function takes as input someone's date of birth, as a string
formatted like `"MM-DD-YYYY"`, and returns that person's age, as of
today.

```py

    def age_today(dob):
        dob = dob.split("-")
        month = ___(a)___ # the month, as an int
        day = ___(b)___ # the day, as an int
        year = ___(c)___ # the year, as an int
        if ___(d)___:
            return 2024 - year
        return 2024 - year - 1
```

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** 

- (a): `int(dob[0])`
- (b): `int(dob[1])`
- (c): `int(dob[2])`
- (d): `month <= 5 and day <= 3`

.split() method divides a string into a list based on delimiter. In this probelm, `dob.split("-")` returns a list of substrings that were separated by hyphens in the original string formatted like `"MM-DD-YYYY". Thus, after using the .split("-"), the resulting list will be formatted like `["MM", "DD", "YYYY"]. Thus, we can access month, day, year by its position in the list `dob`.

Note that the comment asks month, day, year as int, do we need to convert them from string to int datatype, by using int(). 
Thus, we have `month = int(dob[0])`, `day = int(dob[1])`, `year = int(dob[2])`. This is for us to calculate age later by comparing month and day numebrs. 

Then to calculate the age of the person given today is "05-03-2024", we can use `2024-year`.  But if a person is born on or after May 3rd, then they are techinically 1 year younger than that, so we should use `2024-year-1`. Thus in the if statment, we use `month <= 5 and day <= 3` to compare if the person is born before May 3rd. 

<average>59</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB 

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Write a Python expression that evaluates to the average age of all of
your contacts, as of today.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** 

`contacts.get("DOB").apply(age_today).mean()`

`contacts.get("DOB")` gets the column 'DOB' column in contacts DataFrame as a series.

`.apply(age_today)` applies the function `age_today` to each element in the series to calculate age, and returns a series of ages of all contacts. 

`.mean()` calculates the average of the series, giving the average age of all contacts. 


<average>80</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB