# BEGIN PROB

Consider the histogram generated by the following code.

```py
contacts.plot(kind="hist", y="Day", density=True, bins=np.arange(1, 33))
```

Which of the following questions would you be able to answer from this
histogram? Select all that apply.

[ ] How many of your contacts were born on a Monday?
[ ] How many of your contacts were born on January 1st?
[ ] How many of your contacts were born on the first day of the month?
[ ] How many of your contacts were born on the last day of the month?

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** Option 3: How many of your contacts were born on the first day of the month?

`contacts.plot(kind="hist", y="Day", density=True, bins=np.arange(1, 33))` generates a histogram that visualizes the distribution of values in the 'Day' column of the contacts DataFrame. `bins=np.arange(1, 33)` creates the bins `[1,2], [2,3], ..., [31,32]`. Each bar in the histogram represents the density of a day. 

We can answer the question "How many of your contacts were born on the first day of the month?" by checking the bar containing the first day (the first bar).

However, the histogram doesn't contain information of day of the week or month, so it can't answer questions in options 1 or 2.

We also can't choose option 4, because we have months with varying numbers of days (28, 29, 30, or 31). For months with 31 days, we know for sure it's the last day of the month. For bars with 28, 29, and 30 days, we won't be able to tell which proportion of days are the last day of the month since months with 31 days will have a count in all the previous number of days.

<average>80</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END PROB