---
lecture: 9
---

# BEGIN PROB

Select the correct way to fill in the blank such that the code below
evaluates to `True`.

    treat.groupby(______).mean().shape[0] == treat.shape[0]

( ) `"address"`
( ) `"candy"`
( ) `"neighborhood"`
( ) `["address", "candy"]`
( ) `["candy", "neighborhood"]`
( ) `["address", "neighborhood"]`


# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer**: `["address", "candy"]`

`.shape` returns a tuple containing the number of rows and number of columns of a DataFrame respectively. By indexing `.shape[0]` we get the number of rows. In the above question, we are comparing whether the number of rows of `treat` grouped by its column(s) is equal to the number of rows of the original `treat` itself. This is only possible when there is a unique row for each value in the column or for each combination of columns. Since it is possible for an address to give out different types of candy, values in `"address"` can show up multiple times. Similarly, values in `"candy"` can also show up multiple times since more than one house may give out a specific candy. A neighborhood has multiple houses, so if a neighborhood has more than one house, `"neighborhood"` will appear multiple times. 

% write for combinations here %
Each address gives out a specific candy only once, and hence `["address", "candy"]` would have a unique row for each combination. This would make the number of rows in the grouped DataFrame equal to `treat` itself. Multiple neighborhoods might be giving out the same candy or a single neighborhood could be giving out multiple candies, so `["candy", "neighborhood"]` is not the answer. Finally, a neighborhood can have multiple addresses, but each address could be giving out more than one candy, which would mean this combination would occur multiple times in `treat`, which means this would also not be an answer. Since `["address", "candy"]` is the only combination that gives a unique row for each combination, the grouped DataFrame would contain the same number of rows as `treat` itself.

<average>69</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END PROB