# BEGIN PROB

**Extra Credit**

Define the variable `double` as follows.

`double = treat.groupby("candy").count().groupby("address").count()`

Now, suppose you know that

`double.loc[1].get("how_many")` evaluates to `5`.


Which of the following is a valid interpretation of this information?
Select all that apply.

[ ] There are five houses that are each giving out only one type of candy.
[ ] There are five types of candy that are each being given out by only one house.
[ ] There is only one house that is giving out five types of candy.
[ ] There is only one type of candy that is being given out by five houses.
[ ] None of these.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer**: Option 2

Let's approach this solution by breaking down the line of code into two intermediate steps, so that we can parse them one at a time:

- `intermediate_one = treat.groupby("candy").count()`
- `double = intermediate_one.groupby("address").count()`

**Step 1**: `intermediate_one = treat.groupby("candy").count()`

The first of our two operations groups the `treat` DataFrame by the `"candy"` column, and aggregates using the `.count()` method. This creates an output DataFrame that is indexed by `"candy"`, where the values in each column represent the number of times each candy appeared in the `treat` DataFrame.

Remember, in our original DataFrame, each row represents one type of candy being given out by one house. So, each row in `intermediate_one` will contain the **number of houses giving out each candy**. For example, if the values in the columns in the row with row label `Milky Way` were all $3$, it would mean that there are $3$ houses giving out Milky Ways.

**Step 2**: `double = intermediate_one.groupby("address").count()`

The second of our two operations groups the `intermediate_one` DataFrame by the `"address"` column, and aggregates using the `.count()` method. This creates an output DataFrame that is indexed by `"address"`, where the values in each column represent the number of times that each value in the address column appeared in the `intermediate_one` DataFrame. However, these are more difficult to interpret, so let's break down what this means in the context of our problem.

The values in the `intermediate_one` DataFrame represent how many houses are giving out a specific type of candy (this is the result of our first operation). So, when we group by these values, the resulting groups will be defined by all candies that are given out by the same number of houses. For example, if the values in the columns with row label `5` were all $2$, it would mean that there are $2$ types of candy that are being given out by $5$ houses. More concretely, this would mean that the value $5$ showed up $2$ times in the `intermediate_one` DataFrame, which means there must have been $2$ candies that were being given out by $5$ houses (see above).

Combining these two results, we can interpret the output of our original line of code:

`double = treat.groupby("candy").count().groupby("address").count()` outputs a DataFrame where the value in each row represents the number of different candies that are being given out by the same number of houses.

Now, we can easily interpret this line of code:

`double.loc[1].get("how_many")` evaluates to `5`.

This means that there are $5$ different types of candies that are being given out by only $1$ house. This corresponds to **Option 2** and only Option $2$ in our answer choices, so **Option 2** is the correct answer.

<average>15</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END PROB
