# BEGIN PROB

The DataFrame `geisel` contains a row for each day of this academic
year. The `"Students"` column contains the number of students who
visited Geisel Library on that day, as an `int`.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Fill in the blanks below such that

-   `geisel_sample` is a **simple random sample** of 50 rows of
    `geisel`, and

-   the code prints the endpoints of a 95% bootstrapped confidence
    interval for the **mean** number of students at Geisel Library,
    based on the data in `geisel_sample`.

```py
    geisel_sample = __(a)___
    y = np.array([]): 
    for i in np.arange(10000): 
        x = __(b)__
        y = np.append(y, x)
    print(np.percentile(y, 2.5), np.percentile(y, 97.5))

```

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer (a):** `geisel.sample(50)` or `geisel.sample(50, replace = False)`

**Answer (b):** `geisel_sample.sample(50, replace = True).get("Students").mean()` or equivalent

<average>75</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Which of the following is the best description of `x` and `y` in the
code above?

( ) `x` represents the original sample, and `y` represents many resamples.
( ) `x` represents the average student count for a single day, and `y` represents the student count on all days.
( ) `x` represents the sample statistic from a single resample, and `y` represents the distribution of those statistics across multiple resamples.
( ) `x` represents the sample statistic for the original sample, and `y` represents a distribution of statistics across multiple resamples.
( ) `x` represents the population parameter, and `y` represents a bootstrapped distribution of sample statistics.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** Option 3...`x` represents the sample statistic froma single resample, and `y` represents the distribution of those statistics across multiple resamples. 

<average>72</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Select all true statements below.

[ ] If `geisel_sample` had instead had $60$ rows, the resulting $95\%$ confidence interval
would have been wider.
[ ] If we made $100$ $95\%$ confidence intervals based on `geisel_sample`, about $95$ of them would contain the population mean.
[ ] On about $95%$ of days, the number of students at Geisel Library falls between the endpoints of our confidence interval. 
[ ] It would have also been appropriate to generate a confidence interval for this parameter using the Central Limit Theorem. 
[ ] The standard deviation of `geisel_sample` should be approximately the same as the standard deviation of `geisel`
[ ] The data in `geisel_sample` is roughly normally distributed.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:**

Option 4...It would have also been appropriate to generate a confidence interval for this parameter using the Central Limit Theorem. 

Option 5...The standard deviation of `geisel_sample` should be approximately the same as the standard deviation of `geisel`

<average>69</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB