# BEGIN PROB

As a broke college student, you are on a mission to find the dining hall
with the greatest number of affordable menu items.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

To begin, you want a DataFrame with the same columns as `dining`, but
with an additional column `"Affordability"` which classifies each menu
item as follows:

1.  `"Cheap"`, for items that cost \$6 or less.

2.  `"Moderate"`, for items that cost more than \$6 and at most \$14.

3.  `"Expensive"`, for items that cost more than \$14.

Fill in the blanks below to assign this new DataFrame to the variable
`with_affordability`.

```py
    def categorize(price):
        price_as_float = __(a)__  
        if price_as_float __(b)__:
            return __(c)__
        elif price_as_float > 6:
            return "Moderate"
        else:
            return __(d)__
    with_affordability = dining.assign(Affordability = __(e)__)
```

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer (a):**  `float(price.strip("$"))` or `float(price.replace("$", ""))` or `float(price.split("$")[1])`

To solve this problem, we must keep in mind that the prices in the `"Price"` column are formatted as strings with dollar signs in front of them. For example, we might see a value such as `"$9.50"`. Our function's goal is to transform any given value in the `"Price"` column into a float matching the corresponding dollar amount. 

Therefore, one strategy is to first use the `.strip` string method to strip the price of the initial dollar sign. Since we need our output as a float, we can call the python `float` function on this to get the price as a float.

The other strategies are similar. We can replace the dollar sign with the empty string, effectively removing it, then convert to a float. Similarly, we can split the price according to the instances of `"$"`. This will return a list of two elements, the first of which contains everything before the dollar sign, which is the empty string, and the second of which contains everything after the dollar sign, which is the part we want. We extract it with `[1]` and then convert the answer to a float.

<average>61</average>

**Answer (b):** `> 14`

The key to getting this question correct comes from understanding how the placement of `price_as_float > 6` affects how you order the rest of the conditionals within the function. The method through which we test if a price is `"Moderate"` is by checking if `price_as_float > 6`. But `"Moderate"` is defined as being not only more than 6 dollars but also less that or equal to 14 dollars. So we must first check to see if the price is `"Expensive"` before we check and see if the price is `"Moderate"`. This way, prices that are in the `"Expensive"` range get caught by the first `if` statement, and then prices in the `"Moderate"` range get caught by the `elif`.

<average>74</average>

**Answer (c):** `"Expensive"`

In the previous part of this question we checked to see if the `price_as_float > 14`. We did this to see if the given price falls into the `"Expensive"` category. Since the `categorize` function is meant to take in a price and output the corresponding category, we just need to output the correct category for this conditional which is `"Expensive"`.

<average>75</average>

**Answer (d):** `"Cheap"`

In the previous parts of this question, we have implemented checks to see if a price is `"Expensive"` or `"Moderate"`. This leaves only the `"Cheap"` price category, meaning that it can be placed in the else statement. The logic is we check if a price is `"Expensive"` or `"Moderate"` and if its neither, it has to be `"Cheap"`. 

<average>74</average>

**Answer (e):** `dining.get("Price").apply(categorize)`

Now that we have implemented the `categorize` function, we need to apply it to the `"Price"` column so that it can be added as a new column into `dining`. Keep in mind our function takes in one price and outputs its price category. Thus, we need a way to apply this function to every value in the Series that corresponds to the `"Price"` column. To do this, we first need to `get` the Series from the DataFrame and then use `apply` on that Series with our `categorize` function as the input.

<average>89</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Now, you want to determine, for each dining hall, the number of menu
items that fall into each affordability category. Fill in the blanks to
define a DataFrame called `counts` containing this information. `counts`
should have exactly three columns, named `"Dining Hall"`,
`"Affordability"`, and `"Count"`.

```py
    counts = with_affordability.groupby(__(f)__).count().reset_index()
    counts = counts.assign(Count=__(g)__).__(h)__
```

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer (f):** `["Dining Hall", "Affordability"]` or `["Affordability", "Dining Hall"]`

The key to solving this problem comes from understanding exactly what the question is asking. You are asked to create a DataFrame that displays, in each dining hall, the number of menu items that fall into each affordability category. This indicates that you will need to group by both "Dining Hall" and "Affordability" because when you group by multiple columns you get a row for every combination of values in those columns. Rembemer that to group by multiple columns, you need to input the columns names in a **list** as an argument in the `groupby` function. The order of the columns does not matter.

<average>81</average>

**Answer (g):** `counts.get("Price")` or `counts.get("Calories")` or `counts.get("Item")`

For this part, you need to create a column called `"Count"` with the number of menu items that fall into each affordability category within each dining hall. The `.count()` aggregation method works by counting the number of values in each column within each group. In the resulting DataFrame, all the columns have the same values, so we can use the values from any one of the non-index columns in the grouped DataFrame. In this case, those columns are `"Price"`, `"Calories"`, and `"Item"`. Therefore to fill in the blank, you would get any one of these columns.

<average>62</average>

**Answer (h):** `get(["Dining Hall", "Affordability", "Count"])`or `drop(columns=["Item", "Price", "Calories"])` (columns can be in any order)

Recall the question asked to create a DataFrame with only three columns. You have just added one of the columns, `"Count`. This means you have to drop the remaining columns (`"Price"`, `"Calories"`, and `"Item"`) or simply get the desired columns (`"Dining Hall"`, `"Affordability"`, and `"Count"`). 

<average>77</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Suppose you determine that `"The Bistro"` is the dining hall with the
most menu items in the `"Cheap"` category, so you will drag yourself
there for every meal. Which of the following expressions must evaluate
to the number of `"Cheap"` menu items available at `"The Bistro"`?
**Select all that apply.**

[ ] `counts.sort_values(by="Count", ascending=False).get("Count").iloc[0]`
[ ] `counts.get("Count").max()`
[ ] `(counts[counts.get("Affordability") == "Cheap"].sort_values(by="Count").get("Count").iloc[-1])`
[ ] `counts[counts.get("Dining Hall") == "The Bistro"].get("Count").max()`
[ ] `counts[(counts.get("Affordability") == "Cheap") & (counts.get("Dining Hall") == "The Bistro")].get("Count").iloc[0]`
[ ] None of these.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** `(counts[counts.get("Affordability") == "Cheap"].sort_values(by="Count").get("Count").iloc[-1])` and `counts[(counts.get("Affordability") == "Cheap") & (counts.get("Dining Hall") == "The Bistro")].get("Count").iloc[0]`

- **Option 1**: This code sorts all rows by `"Count"` in descending order (largest to smallest) and selects the count from the first row. This is incorrect because there can be another combination of `"Dining Hall"` and `"Affordability"` that has a number of menu items larger than the number of `"Cheap"` items at `"The Bistro"`. For example, maybe there are 100 `"Cheap"` items at `"The Bistro"` but 200 `"Moderate"` items at `"Pines"`. 

- **Option 2**: This code selects the largest value in the `"Count"` column, which may not necessarily be the number of `"Cheap"` items at `"The Bistro"`. Taking the same example as above, maybe there are 100 `"Cheap"` items at `"The Bistro"` but 200 `"Moderate"` items at `"Pines"`. 

- **Option 3**: This code first filters `counts` to only include rows where `"Affordability"` is `"Cheap"`. Then, it sorts by `"Count"` in ascending order (smallest to largest). Since the question states that `"The Bistro"` has the most `"Cheap"` menu items, selecting the last row `(iloc[-1])` from the `"Count"` column correctly retrieves the number of `"Cheap"` menu items at `"The Bistro"`.

- **Option 4**: This code filters `counts` to only include rows where `"Dining Hall"` is `"The Bistro"`, then returns the maximum value in the `"Count"` column. However, `"The Bistro"` may have more menu items in the `"Moderate"` or `"Expensive"` categories than it does in the `"Cheap"` category. This query does not isolate `"Cheap"` items, so it incorrectly returns the highest count across all affordability levels rather than just `"Cheap"`. 

For example, if `"The Bistro"` has 100 `"Cheap"` menu items, 200 `"Moderate"` menu items, and 50 `"Cheap"` menu items, this code would evaluate to 200, even though that is not the number of `"Cheap"` items at `"The Bistro"`. This is possible because we are told that `"The Bistro"` is the dining hall with the most menu items in the `"Cheap"` category, meaning in this example that every other dining hall has fewer than 100 `"Cheap"` items. However, this tells us nothing about the number of menu items at `"The Bistro"` in the other affordability categories, which can be greater than 100.

- **Option 5**: This code queries to find the rows that correspond to `"Cheap"` affordabaility, and a `"Dining Hall"` value of `"The Bistro"`. This is only one such row! The code then selects the first (and only) value in the `"Count"` column, which correctly evaluates to the number of `"Cheap"` items at `"The Bistro"`.

<average>84</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB