# BEGIN PROB

At OceanView Terrace, you can make a custom pizza. There
are $6$ toppings available. Suppose you include each topping with a
probability of $0.5$, independently of all other toppings.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

What is the probability you create a pizza with no toppings at all? Give
your answer as a **fully simplified fraction**.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** 1/64

We want the probability that we create a pizza with no toppings at all, which is to say 0 toppings. That means all 6 of the toppings need to be not included on the pizza. In other words, the probability we want is:

$$P(\text{Not topping 1 AND Not topping 2 AND \dots AND Not topping 6)$$

The problem statement gives us two important pieces of information that we use to calculate this probability:

1. The probability of including every topping is independent of every other topping.

   The independence of including different toppings means that the probability that we create a pizza with **$0$** toppings can be framed as a product of probabilities:
   $$P(\text{Not topping 1}) \cdot P(\text{Not topping 2}) \cdot ... \cdot P(\text{Not topping 6})$$

2. The probability of including a topping is $0.5$.

   This means that the probability of not including each topping is $1 - 0.5 = 0.5$.

Therefore, the probability of creating a pizza with no toppings is $$0.5 \cdot 0.5 \cdot 0.5 \cdot 0.5 \cdot 0.5 \cdot 0.5 = (0.5)^6 = \frac{1}{64}.$$

<average>75</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

What is the probability that you create a pizza with exactly three
toppings? Fill in the blanks in the code below so that `toppa` evaluates
to an estimate of this probability.

```py
        tiptop = 0
        num_trials = 10000

        for i in np.arange(num_trials):
            pizza = np.random.choice([0,1], __(a)__)
            if np.__(b)__ == 3:
                tiptop = __(c)__

        toppa = __(d)__
```

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer (a):** `6`

Blank(a) is the `size` parameter of `np.random.choice` which determines how many random choices we need to make. To determine what value belongs here, consider the context of the code.

We are defining a variable `pizza`, representing one simulated pizza. As we are trying to estimate the probability of including exactly three toppings on a pizza, we can simulate the creation of one pizza by deciding whether to include each of the 6 toppings.

Further, we have instructed `np.random.choice` to select from the list `[0, 1]`. These are the possible outcomes, which represent whether we include a topping (`1`) or don't (`0`). So, we must randomly choose one of these options 6 times, once per topping. 

We are making these choices independently, so each time we choose, we have an equal chance of selecting `0` or `1`. This means it's possible to get several `0`s or several `1`s, so we are selecting with replacement. Keep in mind that the default behavior of `np.random.choice` uses `replace=True`, so we don't need to specify `replace=True` anywhere in the code, though it would not be wrong to include it.

<average>58</average>

**Answer (b):** `count_nonzero(pizza) or sum(pizza)`

`pizza` is an array of `0`s and `1`s, representing whether we include a topping (`1`) or don't (`0`), for each of the 6 toppings. At this step, we want to check if we have three toppings, or if there are exactly three `1`'s in our array. We can either do this by counting how many non-zero elements occur, using `np.count_nonzero(pizza)`, or by finding the sum of this array, because the sum is the total number of `1`s. Note that the `.sum()` array method and the built-in function `sum()` do not fit the structure of the code, which provides us with `np.` We can, however, use the `numpy` function `np.sum()`, which satisfies the constraints of the problem. 

<average>58</average>

**Answer (c):** `tiptop + 1`

`tiptop` is a counter representing the number times we had exactly three toppings in our simulation. We want to add 1 to it every time we have exactly three different toppings, or when we satisfy the above condition (`np.count_nonzero(pizza) == 3`). This is important so that by the end of the simulation, we have a total count of the number of times we had exactly three toppings.

<average>81</average>

**Answer (d):** `tiptop / num_trials`

`tiptop` is the number times we had exactly three toppings in our simulation. To convert this count into a proportion, we need to divide it by the total number of trials in our simluation, or `num_trials`.

<average>84</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

What is the meaning of `tiptop` after the code has finished running?

( ) The number of repetitions in our simulation.
( ) The size of our sample.
( ) The number of times we randomly selected three toppings.
( ) The proportion of times we randomly selected three toppings.
( ) The number of toppings we randomly selected.
( ) None of these answers is what `tiptop` represents.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** The number of times we randomly selected three toppings.

1 is added to `tiptop` every time the condition `np.count_nonzero(pizza) == 3` is satisfied. This means that `tiptop` contains the total number of times in our simulation where `np.count_nonzero(pizza) == 3`, or where our pizza contained exactly three toppings.

<average>77</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB
