# BEGIN PROB

When someone is ready to make an accusation, they make a statement such
as:

*"It was Miss Scarlett with the dagger in the study\"*

While the suspect, weapon, and room may be different, an accusation will
always have this form:

*"It was \_\_\_\_\_\_ with the \_\_\_\_\_\_ in the \_\_\_\_\_\_\"*

Suppose the array `words` is defined as follows (note the spaces).
```py
    words = np.array(["It was ", " with the ", " in the "])
```
Suppose another array called `answers` has been defined. `answers`
contains three elements: the name of the suspect, weapon, and room that
we would like to use in our accusation, in that order. Using `words` and
`answers`, complete the `for`-loop below so that `accusation` is a
string, formatted as above, that represents our accusation.
```py
    accusation = ""
    for i in ___(a)___:
        accusation = ___(b)___
```
# BEGIN SUBPROB

What goes in blank (a)?

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** `[0, 1, 2]`

`answers` could potentially look like this array `np.array(['Mr. Green', 'knife', 'kitchen'])`. We want accusation to be the following: *"<ins>It was </ins>Mr. Green <ins>with the </ins>knife <ins>in the </ins>kitchen"* where the underline represent the string from the `words` array and the nonunderlined parts represent the string from the `answers` array. In the for loop, we want to iterate through words and answers simultaneously, so we can use `[0, 1, 2]` to represent the indices of each array we will be iterating through.

<average>52</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

What goes in blank (b)?

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** `accusation + words[i] + answers[i]`

We are performing string concatenation here. Using the example from above, we want to add to the string `accusation` in order of `accusation`, `words`, `answer`. After all, we want "It was" before "Janine".

<average>56</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB