# BEGIN PROB

Recall that the game *Clue* comes with 22 cards, one for each of the 6
suspects, 7 weapons, and 9 rooms. One suspect card, one weapon card, and
one room card are chosen randomly, without being looked at, and placed
aside in an envelope. The remaining 19 cards (5 suspects, 6 weapons, 8
rooms) are randomly shuffled and dealt out, splitting them as evenly as
possible among the players. Suppose in a three-player game, Janine gets
6 cards, which are dealt one at a time.

Answer the probability questions that follow. Leave your answers
**unsimplified**.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Cards are dealt one at a time. What is the probability that the first
card Janine is dealt is a weapon card?

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** $\frac{6}{19}$

The probability of getting a weapon card is just the number of weapon cards divided by the total number of cards. There are 6 weapon cards and 19 cards total, so the probability has to be $\frac{6}{19}$. Note that it does not matter how the cards were dealt. Though each card is dealt one at a time to each player, Janine will always end up with a randomly selected 6 cards, out of the 19 cards available.

<average>80</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

What is the probability that all 6 of Janine's cards are weapon cards?

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** $\frac{6}{19} \cdot \frac{5}{18} \cdot \frac{4}{17} \cdot \frac{3}{16} \cdot \frac{2}{15} \cdot \frac{1}{14}$

We can calculate the answer using the multiplication rule. The probability of getting Janine getting all the weapon cards is the  probability of getting a dealt a weapon card first multiplied by the probability of getting a weapon card second multiplied by continuing probabilities of getting a weapon card until probability of getting a weapon card on the sixth draw. The denominator of each subsequent probability decreases by 1 because we remove one card from the total number of cards on each draw. The numerator also decreases by 1 because we remove a weapon card from the total number of available weapon cards on each draw. 
<average>62</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Determine the probability that exactly one of the first two cards Janine
is dealt is a weapon card. This probability can be expressed in the form
$$\frac{k \cdot (k + 1)}{m \cdot (m + 1)}$$ where $k$ and $m$ are
**integers**. What are the values of $k$ and $m$?

**Hint**: There is no need for any sort of calculation that you can't do
easily in your head, such as long division or multiplication.


# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** $k$ = 12, $m$ = 18

$m$ has to be 18 because the denominator is the number of cards available during the first and second draw. We have 19 cards on the first draw and 18 on the second draw, so the only way to get that is for $m$ = 18. 

The probability that exactly one of the cards of your first two draws is a weapon card can be broken down into two cases: getting a weapon card first and then a non-weapon card, or getting a non-weapon card first and then a weapon card. We add the probabilities of the two cases together in order to calculate the overall probability, since the cases are mutually exclusive, meaning they cannot both happen at the same time. 

Consider first the probability of getting a weapon card followed by a non-weapon card. This probability is $\frac{6}{19} \cdot \frac{13}{18}$. Similarly, the probability of getting a non-weapon card first, then a weapon card, is $\frac{13}{19} \cdot \frac{6}{18}$. The sum of these is $\frac{6 \cdot 13}{19 \cdot 18}$ + $\frac{13 \cdot 6}{19 \cdot 18}$. 

Since we want the numerator to look like $k \cdot (k+1)$, we want to combine the terms in the numerator. Since the fractions in the sum are the same, we can represent the probability as $2 \cdot \frac{6}{19} \cdot \frac{13}{18}$. Since $2\cdot 6 = 12$, we can express the numerator as $12 \cdot 13$, so $k$ = 12. 

<average>31</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB