# BEGIN PROB
Part of the gameplay of *Clue* involves moving around the gameboard. The
gameboard has 9 rooms, arranged on a grid, and players roll dice to
determine how many spaces they can move.

The DataFrame `dist` contains a row and a column for each of the 9
rooms. The entry in row $r$ and column $c$ represents the shortest
distance between rooms $r$ and $c$ on the *Clue* gameboard, or the
smallest dice roll that would be required to move between rooms $r$ and
$c$. Since you don't need to move at all to get from a room to the same
room, the entries on the diagonal are all 0.

`dist` is indexed by `"Room"`, and the room names appear exactly as they
appear in the index of the `clue` DataFrame. These same values are also
the column labels in `dist`.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Two of the following expressions are equivalent, meaning they evaluate
to the same value without erroring. Select these **two expressions**.

[ ] `dist.get("kitchen").loc["library"]`
[ ] `dist.get("kitchen").iloc["library"]`
[ ] `dist.get("library").loc["kitchen"]`
[ ] `dist.get("library").iloc["kitchen"]`

Explain in **one sentence** why these two expressions are the same.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** `dist.get("kitchen").loc["library"]` and `dist.get("library").loc["kitchen"]`

`dist.get("kitchen").iloc["library"]` and `dist.get("library").iloc["kitchen"]` are both wrong because they uses `iloc` inappropriately. `iloc[]` takes in an integer number representing the location of column, row, or cell you would like to extract and it does not take a column or index name. 

`dist.get("kitchen").loc["library"]` and `dist.get("library").loc["kitchen"]` lead to the same answer because the DataFrame has a unique property! The entry at $r$, $c$ is the same as the entry at $c$, $r$ because both are the distances for the same two rooms. The distance from the kitchen to library is the same as the distance from the library to kichen. 

<average>84</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

On the *Clue* gameboard, there are two "secret passages.\" Each secret
passage connects two rooms. Players can immediately move through secret
passages without rolling, so in `dist` we record the distance as 0
between two rooms that are connected with a secret passage.

Suppose we run the following code.

```py
    nonzero = 0
    for col in dist.columns:
        nonzero = nonzero + np.count_nonzero(dist.get(col))
```

Determine the value of `nonzero` after the above code is run.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** `nonzero` = 68

The `nonzero` variable represents the entries in the DataFrame where the distance between two rooms is not 0. There are 81 entries in the DataFrame because there are 9 rooms and $9 \cdot 9 = 81$. Since the diagonal of the DataFrame is 0 (due to the distance from a room to itself being 0), we know there are at most $72 = 81 - 9$ nonzero entries in the DataFrame. 

We are also told that there are 2 secret passages, each of which connects 2 different rooms, meaning the distance between these rooms is 0. Each secret passage will cause 2 entries in the DataFrame to have a distance of 0. For instance, if the secret passage was between the kitchen and dining room, then the distance from the kitchen to the dining room would be 0, but also the distance from the dining room to the kitchen would be 0. Since there are 2 secret passages and each gives rise to 2 entries that are 0, this is 4 additional entries that are 0. This means there are 68 nonzero entries in the DataFrame, coming from $81 - 9 - 4 = 68$.
<average>28</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Fill in blanks so that the expression below evaluates to a DataFrame
with all the same information as `dist`, plus **one extra column**
called `"Cardholder"` containing Janine's knowledge of who holds each
room card.

```py
    dist.merge(___(a)___, ___(b)___, ___(c)___)
```

1.  What goes in blank (a)?

2.  What goes in blank (b)?

3.  What goes in blank (c)?

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** 

- (a): `clue.get(["Cardholder"])`
- (b): `left_index=True`
- (c): `right_index=True`



Since we want to create a DataFrame that looks like `dist` with an extra column of `"Cardholder"`, we want to extract just that column from `clue` to merge with `dist`. We do this with `clue.get(["Cardholder"])`. This is necessary because when we merge two DataFrames, we get all columns from either DataFrame in the end result.

When deciding what columns to merge on, we need to look for columns from each DataFrame that share common values. In this case, the common values in the two DataFrames are not in columns, but in the index, so we use `left_index=True` and `right_index=True`.

<average>28</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Suppose we generate a scatter plot as follows.
```py
    dist.plot(kind="scatter", x="kitchen", y="study");
```
Suppose the scatterplot has a point at (4, 6). What can we conclude
about the *Clue* gameboard?

( ) The kitchen is 4 spaces away from the study.
( ) The kitchen is 6 spaces away from the study.
( ) Another room besides the kitchen is 4 spaces away from the study.
( ) Another room besides the kitchen is 6 spaces away from the study.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** Another room besides the kitchen is 6 spaces away from the study.

Let's explain each choice and why it is correct or incorrect. The scatterplot shows how far a room is from the kitchen (as shown by values on the x-axis) and how far a room is from the study (as shown by the values on the y-axis). Each room is represented by a point. This means there is a room that is 4 units away from the kitchen and 6 units away from the study. This room can't be the kitchen or study itself, since a room must be distance 0 from itself. Therefore, we conclude, based on the y-coordinate, that there is a room besides the kitchen that is 6 units away from the study.

<average>47</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB