# BEGIN PROB

In `olympians`, `"Weight"` is measured in kilograms. There are 2.2
pounds in 1 kilogram. If we converted `"Weight"` to pounds instead,
which of the following quantities would increase?

[ ] The mean of the `"Weight"` distribution.
[ ] The standard deviation of the `"Weight"` distribution.
[ ] The proportion of `"Weight"` values within 3 standard deviations
of the mean.
[ ] The correlation between `"Height"` and `"Weight"`.
[ ] The slope of the regression line predicting `"Weight"` from
`"Height"`.
[ ] The slope of the regression line predicting `"Height"` from
`"Weight"`.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** Options 1, 2, and 5 are correct.

1. The mean of the new distribution where weight is in pounds would be given by $2.2 \cdot \text{mean}$ in kilograms. Since the mean in kilograms is positive, this quantity must then increase if we multiply it by 2.2. Intuitively this should make sense as we are basically scaling all the (positive) values by 2.2 (a positive constant), so we expect the values to increase and thus the mean to increase. So, option 1 is correct.
2. The standard deviation of the new distribution where weight is in pounds would be given by $2.2  \cdot \text{standard deviation}$ in kilograms. Since the standard deviation in kilograms is positive, this quantity must then increase if we multiply it by 2.2. Intuitively this should make sense as we are scaling all the values by 2.2, so the difference between larger and smaller values will be greater once they are scaled. Thus, we expect the spread of our distribution to be larger, and the standard deviation to increase. So, option 2 is correct.
3. We are basically interested in the proportion of $x_{i}$ that satisfy $\vert \frac{x_{i} \cdot μ}{σ} \vert<3$, with $x_{i}$ being the values of `"Weight"`, μ being the mean in kg and σ being the standard deviation in kg. Once we scale everything by 2.2 to convert from kilograms to pounds, we have that  
$\vert \frac{2.2x_{i}-2.2μ}{2.2σ}\vert<3$ &rarr; $\frac{2.2}{2.2}\vert \frac{x~i~*μ}{σ}\vert<3$ &rarr; $\vert \frac{x_{i} \cdot μ}{σ}\vert<3$.  
Notice that after we scaled it to pounds, the equation still ends up the exact same as the one in kg. Thus, the proportion of `"Weight"` within 3 standard deviations of the mean stays the same. Intuitively this should make sense because we are scaling everything by the same amount, so the proportion of points that are a specific number of standard deviations away from the mean should be the same, since the standard deviation and mean get scaled as well. So, option 3 is incorrect.
4. Recall that the correlation coefficient, r, is the average value of the product of two variables, when both variables are measured in standard units. In kilograms, `"Weight"`(kg) in standard units is $\frac{x~i~−μ}{σ}$. Similar to option 3, `"Weight"`(pounds) in standard units is $\frac{2.2x_{i}-2.2μ}{2.2σ} = \frac{2.2}{2.2} \frac{x_{i} \cdot μ}{σ} = \frac{x_{i} \cdot μ}{σ}$. Again, notice that the equation in pounds ends up the exact same as in kilograms. The same applies for `"Height"` in standard units. Since none of the variables change when measured in standard units, r doesn't change. So, option 4 is incorrect.
5. Intuitively, this makes sense when we imagine a scatterplot with the y-axis (value being predicted) representing `"Weight"` and the x-axis representing `"Height"`. We expect that the taller someone is, the heavier they will be. So we can expect a positive regression line slope between Weight and Height. When we convert Weight from kg to pounds, we are scaling every value in `"Weight"`, making their values increase. When we scale the the weight values (y-values) to become bigger, we are making the regression slope even steeper, because an increase in Height (x) now corresponds to an even larger increase in Weight(y). So, option 5 is correct.
6. Similar to the last problem, we can also imagine a scatterplot except this time with `"Weight"` on the x-axis and `"Height"` on the y-axis. Since we are increasing the values of `"Height"`, we can imagine stretching the x-axis' values without changing the y-values, which makes the line more flat and therefore decreases the slope. So, option 6 is incorrect. 
Another approach to both 5 and 6 is to utilize the correlation coefficient *r*, which is equal to the slope times $\frac{σ~y~}{σ~x~}$. We know that multiplying a set values by a value greater than one increases the spread of the data which increases standard deviation. In option 5, `"Weight"` is in the y-axis, and increasing the numerator of the fraction $\frac{σ~y~}{σ~x~}$ increases *r*. In option 6, `"Weight"` is in the x-axis, and increasing the denominator the fraction $\frac{σ~y~}{σ~x~}$ decreases *r*. 

<average>80</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END PROB