# BEGIN PROB

The Olympics are held every two years, in even-numbered years,
alternating between the Summer Olympics and Winter Olympics. Summer
Olympics are held in years that are a **multiple of 4** (such as 2024),
and Winter Olympics are held in years that are not a multiple of 4 (such
as 2022 or 2026).

We want to add a column to `olympics` that contains either `"Winter"` or
`"Summer"` by applying a function called `season` as follows:
```py
    olympians.assign(Season=olympians.get("Year").apply(season))
```

Which of the following definitions of `season` is correct? Select all
that apply.

*Notes:*

-   We'll ignore the fact that the 2020 Olympics were rescheduled to
    2021 due to Covid.

-   Recall that the `%` operator in Python gives the remainder upon
    division. For example, `8 % 3` evaluates to `2`.

Way 1:
```py
        def season(year):
            if year % 4 == 0:
                return "Summer"
            return "Winter"
```

Way 2:
```py
        def season(year):
            return "Winter"
            if year % 4 == 0:
                return "Summer"
```

Way 3:
```py
        def season(year):
            if year % 2 == 0:
                return "Winter"
            return "Summer"
```
Way 4:
```py
        def season(year):
            if int(year / 4) != year / 4:
                return "Winter"
            return "Summer"
```

[ ] Way 1
[ ] Way 2
[ ] Way 3
[ ] Way 4

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer:** Way 1 and Way 4

- Way 1: This function first checks if the year is divisible by 4, and returns "Summer" if it is. If the year isn’t divisible by 4, then the code inside that if statement won’t execute, and we move on to the next line of code, which just returns "Winter", as we wanted. So, way 1 is correct.
- Way 2 looks similar to way 1, but has one key difference: the `return "Winter"` line is **before** the if statement. Since nothing after a return statement gets executed (assuming that the return statement gets executed), no matter what the year is this function will always return "Winter". So, way 2 is incorrect.
- Way 3 doesn’t account for the fact that all years which are multiples of 4 are also multiples of 2. So even though it gets the 2022 Winter Olympics correct, it will also return "Winter" for 2020 since `2020 % 2` evaluates to `0`. So, way 3 is incorrect.
- Way 4 uses similar logic to way 1, just using a different method to check for divisibility. Instead of using the modulo operator, we check if casting `year / 4` to an integer using `int` changes its value. If the two aren’t equal, then we know that `year / 4` wasn’t an integer before casting, which means that the year isn’t divisible by 4 and we should return `"Winter"`. If the code inside the if statement doesn’t execute, then we know that the year is divisible by 4, so we return "Summer". So, way 4 is correct.

<average>89</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END PROB