# BEGIN PROB

In figure skating, skaters move around an ice rink performing a series
of skills, such as jumps and spins. Ylesia has been training for the
Olympics, and she has a set routine that she plans to perform.

Let's say that Ylesia performs a skill successfully if she does not fall
during that skill. Each skill comes with its own probability of success,
as some skills are harder and some are easier. Suppose that the
probabilities of success for each skill in Ylesia's Olympic routine are
stored in an array called `skill_success`.

For example, if Ylesia's Olympic routine happened to only contain three
skills, `skill_success` might be the array with values 0.92, 0.84, 0.92.
However, her routine can contain any number of skills.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Ylesia wants to simulate one Olympic routine to see how many times she
might fall. Fill in the function `count_falls` below, which takes as
input an array `skill_success` and returns as output the number of times
Ylesia falls during her Olympic routine.
```py

        def count_falls(skill_success):
            falls = 0
            for p in skill_success:
                result = np.random.multinomial(1, __(a)__)
                falls = __(b)__
            return falls
```

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer:** (a): `[p, 1-p]`, (b): `falls + result[1]` OR (a): `[1-p, p]`, (b): `falls + result[0]` 

1. **(a)**  First, we should think about what np.random.multinomial is trying to do here. It's trying to make an array of how many times each scenario happened. There are 2 possible scenarios here: Ylesia succeeds or Ylesia fails. In this code, p is the probability that Ylesia succeeds a skill, and therefore the probabilty that Ylesia does not succeed (she fails) will be 1-p. So to properly simulate how many times she falls, we should put `[p, 1-p]` in blank (a). 
2. **(b)** Our answer from (a) will make an array stored in `result`, with index 0 being how many times she succeeded (corresponds to p), and index 1 being how many times she fell (corresponds to 1-p). Since index 1 corresponds to the scenario in which she falls, in order to correctly increase the number of falls, we add `falls` by `result[1]`. Therefore, blank (b) is `falls + result[1]`. 

Likewise, you can change the order with (a): `[1-p, p]` and (b): `falls + result[0]` and it would still correctly simulate how many times she falls. 

<average>59</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Fill in the blanks below so that `prob_no_falls` evaluates to the exact
probability of Ylesia performing her entire routine without falling.

```py
        prob_no_falls = __(a)__
        for p in skill_success:
            prob_no_falls = __(b)__
        prob_no_falls
```

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer:** (a): `1`, (b): `prob_no_falls * p`

1. **(a)** We start with the initial value of `prob_no_falls`. This should be set to 1 because we're computing a probability product, and starting with 1 ensures the initial value doesn't affect the multiplication of subsequent probabilities.
2. **(b)** Inside the for-loop, we want to update `prob_no_falls` by multiplying it by each probability of success (`p`) in `skill_success`. This is because the probability of Ylesia not falling throughout multiple independent skills is the product of her not falling during each skill.

<average>72</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Fill the blanks below so that `approx_prob_no_falls` evaluates to an
estimate of the probability that Ylesia performs her entire routine
without falling, based on 10,000 trials. Feel free to use the function
you defined in part (a) as part of your solution.

```py
        results = np.array([])
        for i in np.arange(10000):
            results = np.append(results, __(a)__)
        approx_prob_no_falls = __(b)__
        approx_prob_no_falls
```

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:**(a): `count_falls(skill_success)`, (b): `np.count_nonzero(results == 0) / 10000`, though there are many other correct solutions

1. **(a)** For this question, we are doing a simulation where we calculate the probability of Ylesia not falling during her routine based on 10,000 trials. To do so, we want to find out the number of times that Yelsia did not fall any skill during her routine out of the 10,000 trials. Based on the given codes, we have an array where we are appending something into that array for each trial. We can utilize the function defined in part a to calculate the number of times Ylesia falls during a single trial so blank a will be `count_falls(skill_success)`. 
2. **(b)** After 10,000 iterations, we have an array of the number of falls for each trial. Then, we want to count the number of times that we get 0 in that array, which means Ylesia did not fall. Lastly, to get the probability, we will need to divide by the total number of trials which is 10,000. This gives us the answer for blank b: `np.count_nonzero(results == 0) / 10000`. 

<average>66</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB