# BEGIN PROB

In our sample, we have data on **1210 medals** for the
sport of gymnastics. Of these, **126** were awarded to American
gymnasts, **119** were awarded to Romanian gymnasts, and the remaining
**965** were awarded to gymnasts from other nations.

We want to do a hypothesis test with the following hypotheses.

**Null**: American and Romanian gymnasts win an equal share of Olympic
gymnastics medals.

**Alternative**: American gymnasts win more Olympic gymnastics medals
than Romanian gymnasts.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Which test statistic could we use to test these hypotheses?

( ) total variation distance between the distribution of medals by country and the uniform distribution
( ) proportion of medals won by American gymnasts
( ) difference in the number of medals won by American gymnasts and the number of medals won by Romanian gymnasts
( ) absolute difference in proportion of medals won by American gymnasts and proportion of medals won by Romanian gymnasts

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer:** difference in the number of medals won by American gymnasts and the number of medals won by Romanian gymnasts

To test this pair of hypotheses, we need a test statistic that is large when the data suggests that we reject the null hypothesis, and small when we fail to reject the null. Now let's look at each option:  
- **Option 1:** Total variation distance across all the countries won't tell us about the differences in medals between Americans and Romanians. In this case, it only tells how different the proportions are across all countries in comparison to the uniform distribution, the mean proportion. 
- **Option 2:** This test statistic doesn't take into account the number of medals Romanians won. Imagine a situation where Romanians won half of all the medals and Americans won the other half, and no other country won any medals. In here, they won the same amount of medals and the test statistic would be 1/2. Now imagine if Americans win half the medals, some other country won the other half, and Romanians won no medals. In this case, the Americans won a lot more medals than Romanians but the test statistic is still 1/2. A good test statistic should point to one hypothesis when it's large and the other hypothesis when it's small. In this test statistic, 1/2 points to both hypotheses, making it a bad test statistic.  
- **Option 3:** In this test statistic, when Americans win an equal amount of medals as Romanians, the test statistic would be 0, a very small number. When Americans win way more medals than Romanians, the test statistic is large, suggesting that we reject the null hypothesis in favor of the alternative. You might notice that when Romanians win way more medals than Americans, the test statistic would be negative, suggesting that we fail to reject the null hypothesis that they won equal medals. But recall that failing to reject the null doesn't necessarily mean we think the null is true, it just means that under our null hypothesis and alternative hypothesis, the null is plausible. The important thing is that the test statistic points to the alternative hypothesis when it's large, and points to the null hypothesis when it's small. This test statistic does just that, so option 3 is the correct answer.  
- **Option 4:** Since this statistic is an absolute value, large values signify a large difference in the two proportions, while small values signify a small difference in two proportions. However, it doesn't tell which country wins more because a large value could mean that either country has a higher proportion of medals than the other. This hypothesis would only be helpful if our alternative hypothesis was that the number of medals the Americans/ Romanians win are different. 

<average>73</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Below are four different ways of testing these hypotheses. In each case,
fill in the calculation of the observed statistic in the variable
`observed`, such that `p_val` represents the p-value of the hypothesis
test.

Way 1:
```py
        many_stats = np.array([])
        for i in np.arange(10000):
            result = np.random.multinomial(245, [0.5, 0.5]) / 245
            many_stats = np.append(many_stats, result[0] - result[1])
        observed = __(a)__
        p_val = np.count_nonzero(many_stats >= observed)/len(many_stats)
```

Way 2:

```py
        many_stats = np.array([])
        for i in np.arange(10000):
            result = np.random.multinomial(245, [0.5, 0.5]) / 245
            many_stats = np.append(many_stats, result[0] - result[1])
        observed = __(b)__
        p_val = np.count_nonzero(many_stats <= observed)/len(many_stats)
```

Way 3:
```py
        many_stats = np.array([])
        for i in np.arange(10000):
            result = np.random.multinomial(245, [0.5, 0.5]) / 245
            many_stats = np.append(many_stats, result[0])
        observed = __(c)__ 
        p_val = np.count_nonzero(many_stats >= observed)/len(many_stats)
```

Way 4:
```py
        many_stats = np.array([])
        for i in np.arange(10000):
            result = np.random.multinomial(245, [0.5, 0.5]) / 245
            many_stats = np.append(many_stats, result[0])
        observed = __(d)__ 
        p_val = np.count_nonzero(many_stats <= observed)/len(many_stats)
```

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer:** Way 1: `126/245 - 119/245` or `7/245`

First, let's look at what this code is doing. The line `result = np.random.multinomial(245, [0.5, 0.5]) / 245` makes an array of length 2, where each of the 2 elements contains the amount of the 245 total medals corresponding to the amount of medals won by American gymnasts and Romanian gymnasts respectively. We then divide this array by 245 to turn them into proportions out of 245 (which is the sum of 126+119). This array of proportions is then assigned to `result`. For example, one of our 10000 repetitions could assign `np.array([124/245, 121/245])` to `result`. The following line, `many_stats = np.append(many_stats, result[0] - result[1])`, appends the difference between the first proportion in `result` and the second proportion in `result` to `many_stats`. Using our example, this would append 124/245 - 121/245 (which equals 3/245) to `many_stats`. To determine how we calculate the observed statistic, we have to consider how we are calculating the p-value. In order to calculate the p-value, we need to determine how frequent it is to see a result as extreme as our observed statistic, or more extreme in the direction of the alternative hypothesis. The alternative hypothesis states that American gymnasts win more medals than Romanian gymnasts, meaning that we are looking for results in `many_stats` where the difference is equal to or greater than (more extreme than) 126/245 - 119/245 (which equals 7/245). That is, the final line of code in Way 1 is using `np.count_nonzero` to find the amount of differences in `many_stats` greater than 7/245. Therefore, observed must equal 7/245.

<average>56</average>

**Answer:** Way 2: `119/245 - 126/245` or `-7/245`

The only difference between Way 2 and Way 1 is that in Way 2, the `>=` is switched to a `<=`. This causes a result as extreme or more extreme than our observed statistic to now be represented as anything less than or equal to our observed statistic. To account for this, we need to consider the first proportion in `result` as the number of medals won by Romanian gymnasts, and the second proportion as the number of medals won by American gymnasts. This flips the sign of all of the proportions. So instead of calculating our observed statistic as $\frac{126}{245}-\frac{119}{245}$, we now calculate it as $\frac{119}{245}-\frac{126}{245}$ (which equals $\frac{-7}{245}$).

<average>53</average>

**Answer:** Way 3: `126/245`

The difference between way 1 and way 3 is that way 3 is now taking `results[0]` as its test statistic instead of `results[0] - results[1]`, which represents the number of Olympic gymnastics medals won by American gymnasts. This means that the observed statistic should be the number of medals won by America in the given sample. In that case, the observed statistics will be $\frac{\text{# of American medals}}{\text{# of American medals} + \text{# of Romanian medals}}$ = $\frac{126}{245}$

<average>52</average>

**Answer:** Way 4: `119/245`

Since now the sign is swapped from `>=` in way 3 to `<=` in way 4, `results[0]` represent the number of Romanian medals won. This is because the alternative hypothesis states that America wins more medals than Romania, demonstrating that the observed statistics is `119/245`. 

<average>50</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

The four p-values calculated in Ways 1 through 4 are:

( ) exactly the same
( ) similar, but not necessarily exactly the same
( ) not necessarily similar

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer:**  similar, but not necessarily the same

All of these differences in test statistics and different p-values all are different, however, they are all geared towards testing through the same null and alternative hypothesis. Although they are all different methods, they are all trying to prove the same conclusion.

<average>71</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB