# BEGIN PROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

In Olympic hockey, the number of goals a team scores is linearly
associated with the number of shots they attempt. In addition, the
number of goals a team scores has a mean of 10 and a standard deviation
of 5, whereas the number of attempted shots has a mean of 30 and a
standard deviation of 10.

Suppose the regression line to predict the number of goals based on the
number of shots predicts that for a game with 20 attempted shots, 6
goals will be scored. What is the correlation between the number of
goals and the number of attempted shots? Give your answer as an exact
fraction or decimal.


# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer:** $\frac{4}{5}$

Recall that the formula of the regression line in standard units is $y_{su}=r \cdot x_{su}$. Since we are predicting # of goals from the # of shots, let $x_{su}$ represent # of shots in standard units and $y_{su}$ represent # of goals in standard units. Using the formula for standard units with information in the problem, we find $x_{su}=\frac{20-30}{10}=(-1)$ and $y_{su}=\frac{6-10}{5}=(-\frac{4}{5})$. Hence, $(-\frac{4}{5})=r \cdot (-1)$ and $r=\frac{4}{5}$.

<average>74</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB 

# BEGIN SUBPROB

In Olympic baseball, the number of runs a team scores is linearly
associated with the number of hits the team gets. The number of runs a
team scores has a mean of 8 and a standard deviation of 4, while the
number of hits has a mean of 24 and a standard deviation of 6. Consider
the regression line that predicts the number of runs scored based on the
number of hits.

1.  What is the maximum possible predicted number of runs for a team
    that gets 27 hits?


2.  What is the correlation coefficient in the case where the predicted
    number of runs for a team with 25 hits is as large as possible?


# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer:**

This problem asks about the maximum possible of predicted runs for a team with $27$ hits, and the correlation coefficient for the case where the predicted number of runs for a team with $25$ hits is maximized. Both of these questions relate to the same concept, so we can answer them both in one fell swoop.

Concept:

The key idea is that the highest correlation coefficient leads to maximum predictions. This is because of a simple fact from lecture: When both $x$ (hits) and $y$ (runs) are converted to standard units, 

$y_\text{pred}$ (su) = $r * x$ (su). 

So, the maximum slope in standard units, leading to the highest predictions, is $1$, since $-1 <= r <= 1$. If $r$ were any less than $1$, we would be multiplying our $x$ value by a smaller number to get our predicted $y$ value, resulting in lower predictions. In other words,

Max($y_\text{pred}$) (su) = $1 * x$ (su). 

Let's apply that to answer part 1.

In part 1, we are asked the maximum possible predicted runs for a team with $27$ hits. $27$ in standard units is:

$\dfrac{(27 - 24)}{3} = 0.5$,

and the highest value of $r$ (yielding the maximum predictions) is $1$. So, we have:

Max($y_\text{pred}$) (su ) $ = 1 * 0.5$
Max($y_\text{pred}$) (su ) $= 0.5$

Now, we simply need to convert our maximum predicted $y$ in standard units back to its original units, and we have our answer:

$y$ (su) $* \text{SD}_y + \text{Mean}_y = y$  (original units).
$0.5 * 4 + 8 = y$ (original units)
$10 = y$ (original units)

So, the maximum number of predicted runs for a team with $27$ hits is $10$.

<average>63</average>

**Answer:** ii) 1

Part 2 uses the same information as part 1. The value of $r$ that results in the largest predictions of $y$ is $1$ (explained above). So, the correlation coefficient for the case where the predicted number of runs for a team with $25$ hits is maximized is $1$.

<average>67</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB