# BEGIN PROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Suppose that in Olympic ski jumping, ski jumpers jump off of a ramp
that's shaped like a portion of a normal curve. Drawn from left to
right, a full normal curve has an inflection point on the ascent, then a
peak, then another inflection point on the descent. A ski jump ramp
stops at the point that is one third of the way between the inflection
point on the ascent and the peak, measured horizontally. Below is an
example ski jump ramp, along with the normal curve that generated it.

<center><img src='../assets/images/wi24-final/skijump.jpg' width=400></center>


Fill in the blank below so that the expression evaluates to the area of
a ski jump ramp, if the area under the normal curve that generated it is
1.
```py
    from scipy import stats
    stats.norm.cdf(______)
```
What goes in the blank?

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer:** 

<average>51</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Suppose that in Olympic downhill skiing, skiers compete on mountains
shaped like normal distributions with mean 50 and standard deviation 8.
skiers start at the peak and ski down the right side of the mountain, so
their $x$-coordinate increases.

Keenan is an Olympic downhill skier, but he's only been able to practice
on a mountain shaped like a normal distribution with mean 65 and
standard deviation 12. In his practice, Keenan always crouches down low
when he reaches the point where his $x$-coordinate is 92, which helps
him ski faster. When he competes at the Olympics, at what $x$-coordinate
should he crouch down low, corresponding to the same relative location
on the mountain?

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer:** 

<average>72</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Aaron is another Olympic downhill skier. When he competes on the normal
curve mountain with mean 50 and standard deviation 8, he crouches down
low when his $x$-coordinate is $54$. If the total area of the mountain
is 1, approximately how much of the mountain's area is ahead of Aaron at
the moment he crouches down low?

( ) 0.1
( ) 0.2
( ) 0.3
( ) 0.4

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer:** 

<average>50</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB