# BEGIN PROB

In the early 1990s, computational linguists developed the Penn Treebank
part of speech tagging system. In this system, there are $36$ tags that
represent different parts of speech. The tags, their meanings, and a few
examples are given in the `tags` DataFrame, whose first five rows are
shown here.

<center><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dsc-courses/practice.dsc10.com/refs/heads/master/assets/images/fa25-midterm/tags.jpg" width=400></center>
\

All of the values in the `"ps"` column of `words` are tags from the Penn
Treebank system. Remember, we're assuming that we've already applied the
`fix_ps` function from the previous problem.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

We want to merge `words` with `tags` so that we can see the meaning of
each word's part of speech tag more easily. Fill in the blank in the
code below to accomplish this.

Note that the index is lost when merging, so in order to keep `"word"`
as the index of our result, we have to use `reset_index()` before
merging, then set the index to `"word"` again after merging.

    merged = words.reset_index().merge(__(a)__).set_index("word")
    merged

# BEGIN SOLUTION

`(a)`: `tags, left on="ps", right on="tag"`

We want to merge the words dataframe with the tags dataframe, and we
want both to merge on the column with the tags in them. In the words
df, this is the `"ps"` column, and in the tags df this is the `"tag"` column.

<average>75</average>


# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB 

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Suppose `words` contains $5357$ rows and `tags` contains $36$ rows. How
many rows does `merged` contain? Give your answer as an integer or a
mathematical expression that evaluates to an integer.


# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer**: `5357`

When we merge `words` with `tags`, we know that there are 36 unique rows
in tags. This means that for every row in `words`, there is only one row
in `tags` that it will be able to merge with in this new df. This means
that every row in `words` corresponds to only one row in , meaning that
the new merged df will have the same amount of rows as the `words` df,
or 5337.

<average>62</average>


# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB