# BEGIN PROB

Suppose that for each word in the English language, Matt has a $70\%$
chance of finding it difficult. Suppose also that the difficulty of each
word is independent of the difficulty of any other word.

For all parts of this problem, give your answer as a decimal number or
as an unsimplified mathematical expression.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

If Matt reads a sentence of $10$ words, what is the probability that he
finds **every** word difficult?

# BEGIN SOLUTION


**Answer**: $(0.7)^{10}$

Each word is independent, so the probability of finding 10 straight
words difficult is just the probability of finding any particular word
difficult to the tenth power.

<average>89</average>


# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB 

# BEGIN SUBPROB

If Matt reads a sentence of $10$ words, what is the probability that he
finds **at least one** word difficult?

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer**: $1 - (0.3)^{10}$

This is a problem where it's easier to find the probability that the
given event **doesn't** happen. The only way this would not happen is if
Matt finds absolutely none of the words difficult. That would have a
probability of $(1-0.7)^{10}$, and our answer is going to be 1 minus
that.

<average>62</average>


# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

Now suppose that Ryan finds the English language slightly more
difficult, as it's not his first language:

-   For each word, if Matt finds it difficult, there's a $90\%$ chance
    that Ryan finds it difficult.
-   For each word, if Matt doesn't find it difficult, there's still a
    $50\%$ chance that Ryan finds it difficult.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

For any given word, what is the probability that **at least one of Matt
and Ryan** finds it difficult?

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer**: $1 - 0.3 * 0.5 = 0.85$

For this problem its easier to find the probability that this
**doesn't** happen. The only way this would not happen would be if both
Matt and Ryan don't find the word difficult. For Matt, that happens with
probability $0.3$. And then given that Matt doesn't find the word
difficult, Ryan has a $0.5$ probability of not finding the word
difficult. Multiplying those two probabilities and subtracting from 1
gives us our answer.

<average>34</average>


# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB 

# BEGIN SUBPROB

What is the probability that for **every** word in a sentence of $10$
words, **exactly one of Matt and Ryan** finds the word difficult?

# BEGIN SOLUTION


**Answer**: $(0.7 * 0.1 + 0.3 * 0.5)^{10} = (0.22)^{10}$

Since each word is independent, we only need to find the probability
that for one particular word either Matt or Ryan finds it difficult but
not both, and then we can take that probability to the power of 10. The
first case is that Matt finds a word difficult but Ryan doesn't. The
first part happens with probability $0.7$, and given that Matt found the
word difficult, the second part happens with probability $0.1$. We
multiply those to get one part of our sum. The other case is that Matt
doesn't find a word difficult but Ryan does. The first part happens with
probability $0.3$, and given that, the second part happens with
probability $0.5$. Multiplying these two gives us the second part of our
sum.

<average>17</average>


# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB