# BEGIN PROB

\[(11 pts)\]

In some cities, the number of sunshine hours per month is relatively
consistent throughout the year. São Paulo, Brazil is one such city; in
all months of the year, the number of sunshine hours per month is
somewhere between 139 and 173. New York City's, on the other hand,
ranges from 139 to 268.

Gina and Abel, both San Diego natives, are interested in assessing how
"consistent\" the number of sunshine hours per month in San Diego appear
to be. Specifically, they'd like to test the following hypotheses:

-   **Null Hypothesis**: The number of sunshine hours per month in San
    Diego is drawn from the uniform distribution,
    $\left[\frac{1}{12}, \frac{1}{12}, ..., \frac{1}{12}\right]$. (In
    other words, the number of sunshine hours per month in San Diego is
    equal in all 12 months of the year.)

-   **Alternative Hypothesis**: The number of sunshine hours per month
    in San Diego is not drawn from the uniform distribution.

As their test statistic, Gina and Abel choose the total variation
distance. To simulate samples under the null, they will sample from a
categorical distribution with 12 categories --- January, February, and
so on, through December --- each of which have an equal probability of
being chosen.

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

In order to run their hypothesis test, Gina and Abel need a way to
calculate their test statistic. Below is an incomplete implementation of
a function that computes the TVD between two arrays of length 12, each
of which represent a categorical distribution.

    def calculate_tvd(dist1, dist2):
        return np.mean(np.abs(dist1 - dist2)) * ____

Fill in the blank so that `calculate_tvd` works as intended.

( ) `1 / 6` ( ) `1 / 3` ( ) `1 / 2` ( ) `2` ( ) `3` ( ) `6`

# END SUBPROB

**Moving forward, assume that `calculate_tvd` works correctly.**

Now, complete the implementation of the function `uniform_test`, which
takes in an array `observed_counts` of length 12 containing the number
of sunshine hours each month in a city and returns the p-value for the
hypothesis test stated at the start of the question.

    def uniform_test(observed_counts):
        # The values in observed_counts are counts, not proportions!
        total_count = observed_counts.sum()
        uniform_dist = __(b)__
        tvds = np.array([])
        for i in np.arange(10000):
            simulated = __(c)__
            tvd = calculate_tvd(simulated, __(d)__)
            tvds = np.append(tvds, tvd)
        return np.mean(tvds __(e)__ calculate_tvd(uniform_dist, __(f)__))

# BEGIN SUBPROB

What goes in blank (b)? *(Hint: The function `np.ones(k)` returns an
array of length `k` in which all elements are `1`.)*

::: responsebox
0.5in
:::

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

What goes in blank (c)?

( ) `np.random.multinomial(12, uniform_dist)`

( ) `np.random.multinomial(12, uniform_dist) / 12`

( ) `np.random.multinomial(12, uniform_dist) / total_count`

( ) `np.random.multinomial(total_count, uniform_dist)`

( ) `np.random.multinomial(total_count, uniform_dist) / 12`

( ) `np.random.multinomial(total_count, uniform_dist) / total_count`

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

What goes in blank (d)?

::: responsebox
0.5in
:::

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

What goes in blank (e)?

( ) `>` ( ) `>=` ( ) `<` ( ) `<=` ( ) `==` ( ) `!=`

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

What goes in blank (f)?

::: responsebox
0.5in
:::

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB