# BEGIN PROB

\[(17 pts)\]

Oren's favorite bakery in San Diego is Wayfarer. After visiting
frequently, he decides to learn how to make croissants and baguettes
himself, and to do so, he books a trip to France.

Oren is interested in estimating the mean number of sunshine hours in
July across all 10,000+ cities in France. Using the 16 French cities in
`sun`, Oren constructs a 95% Central Limit Theorem (CLT)-based
confidence interval for the mean sunshine hours of all cities in France.
The interval is of the form $[L, R]$, where $L$ and $R$ are positive
numbers.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Which of the following expressions is equal to the standard deviation of
the number of sunshine hours of the 16 French cities in `sun`?

( ) $R - L$ ( ) $\frac{R - L}{2}$ ( ) $\frac{R - L}{4}$ ( ) $R + L$ ( )
$\frac{R + L}{2}$ ( ) $\frac{R + L}{4}$

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

(1.5 pts) True or False: There is a 95% chance that the interval
$[L, R]$ contains the mean number of sunshine hours in July of all 16
French cities in `sun`.

( ) True ( ) False

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

(1.5 pts) True or False: If we collected 1,000 new samples of 16 French
cities and computed the mean of each sample, then about 95% of the new
sample means would be contained in $[L, R]$.

( ) True ( ) False

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

(1.5 pts) True or False: If we collected 1,000 new samples of 16 French
cities and created a 95% confidence interval using each one, then chose
one of the 1,000 new intervals at random, the chance that the randomly
chosen interval contains the mean sunshine hours in July across all
cities in France is approximately 95%.

( ) True ( ) False

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

(1.5 pts) True or False: The interval $[L, R]$ is centered at the mean
number of sunshine hours in July across all cities in France.

( ) True ( ) False

# END SUBPROB

In addition to creating a 95% CLT-based confidence interval for the mean
sunshine hours of all cities in France, Oren would like to create a 76%
bootstrap-based confidence interval for the mean sunshine hours of all
cities in France.

Oren resamples from the 16 French sunshine hours in `sun` 10,000 times
and creates an array named `french_sunshine` containing 10,000 resampled
means. He wants to find the left and right endpoints of his 76%
confidence interval:

    boot_left = np.percentile(french_sunshine, __(a)__)
    boot_right = np.percentile(french_sunshine, __(b)__)

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Fill in the blanks so that `boot_left` and `boot_right` evaluate to the
left and right endpoints of a 76% confidence interval for the mean
sunshine hours in July across all cities in France.

What goes in blank (a)?

What goes in blank (b)?

# END SUBPROB

Suppose we are interested in testing the following pair of hypotheses.

-   **Null Hypothesis**: The mean number of sunshine hours of all cities
    in France in July is equal to 225.

-   **Alternative Hypothesis**: The mean number of sunshine hours of all
    cities in France in July is not equal to 225.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

(1.5 pts) Suppose that when Oren uses `[boot_left, boot_right]`, his 76%
bootstrap-based confidence interval, he fails to reject the null
hypothesis above. If that's the case, then when using $[L, R]$, his 95%
CLT-based confidence interval, what is the conclusion of his hypothesis
test?

( ) Reject the null ( ) Fail to reject the null ( ) Impossible to tell

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

(1.5 pts) Suppose that Oren also creates a 76% CLT-based confidence
interval for the mean sunshine hours of all cities in France in July
using the same 16 French cities in `sun` he started with. When using his
76% CLT-based confidence interval, he fails to reject the null
hypothesis above. If that's the case, then when using $[L, R]$, what is
the conclusion of his hypothesis test?

( ) Reject the null ( ) Fail to reject the null ( ) Impossible to tell

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

True or False: The significance levels of both hypothesis tests
described in part (h) are equal.

( ) True ( ) False

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB