# BEGIN PROB

While browsing the library, Hermione stumbles upon an old book
containing game logs for all Quidditch matches played at Hogwarts in the
18th century. Quidditch is a sport played between two houses. It
features three types of balls:

-   **Quaffle**: Worth 10 points when used to score a goal.

-   **Bludger**: Does not contribute points. Instead, used to distract
    the other team.

-   **Snitch**: Worth 150 points when caught. This immediately ends the
    game.

A game log is a list of actions that occurred during a Quidditch match.
Each element of a game log is a two-letter string where the first letter
represents the house that performed the action (`"G"` for Gryffindor, ,
`"H"` for Hufflepuff, `"R"` for Ravenclaw, `"S"` for Slytherin) and the
second letter indicates the type of Quidditch ball used in the action
(`"Q"` for Quaffle, `"B"` for Bludger, `"S"` for Snitch). For example,
`"RQ"` in a game log represents Ravenclaw scoring with the Quaffle to
earn 10 points.

Hermione writes a function, `logwarts`, to calculate the final score of
a Quidditch match based on the actions in the game log. The inputs are a
game log (a list, as described above) and the full names of the two
houses competing. The output is a list of length 4 containing the names
of the teams and their corresponding scores. Example behavior is given
below.

        >>> logwarts(["RQ", "GQ", "RB", "GS"], "Gryffindor", "Ravenclaw")
        ["Gryffindor", 160, "Ravenclaw", 10]

        >>> logwarts(["HB", "HQ", "HQ", "SS"], "Hufflepuff", "Slytherin")
        ["Hufflepuff", 20, "Slytherin", 150]

Fill in the blanks in the `logwarts` function below. Note that some of
your answers are **used in more than one place** in the code.

        def logwarts(game_log, team1, team2):
            score1 = __(a)__
            score2 = __(a)__

            for action in game_log:
                house = __(b)__
                ball = __(c)__
                
                if __(d)__: 
                    __(e)__:
                        score1 = score1 + 10
                    __(f)__:
                        score1 = score1 + 150
                else:
                    __(e)__:
                        score2 = score2 + 10
                    __(f)__:
                        score2 = score2 + 150
            return [team1, score1, team2, score2]


# BEGIN SOLUTION

# END SOLUTION

# END PROB