# BEGIN PROB


The Death Eaters are a powerful group of dark wizards who oppose Harry
Potter and his allies. Each Death Eater receives a unique identification
number based on their order of initiation, ranging from `1` to `N`,
where `N` represents the total number of Death Eaters.

Your task is to estimate the value of `N` so you can understand how many
enemies you face. You have a random sample of identification numbers in
a DataFrame named `death_eaters` containing a single column called
`"ID"`.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Which of the options below would be an appropriate estimate for the
total number of Death Eaters? Select all that apply.

[ ] `death_eaters.get("ID").max()`
[ ] `death_eaters.get("ID").sum()`
[ ] `death_eaters.groupby("ID").count()`
[ ] `int(death_eaters.get("ID").mean() * 2)`
[ ] `death_eaters.shape[0]`
[ ] None of the above.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** `death_eaters.get("ID").max()` and `int(death_eaters.get("ID").mean() * 2)`


- Option 1: `death_eaters.get("ID").max()` returns the maximum ID from the sample. This is an appropriate estimate since the population size must be at least the size of the largest ID in our sample. For instance, if the maximum ID observed is 250, then the total number of Death Eaters must be at least 250.

- Option 2: `death_eaters.get("ID").sum()` returns the sum of all ID numbers in the sample. The total sum of IDs has no meaningful connection to the population size, which makes this an inappropriate estimate.

- Option 3: `death_eaters.groupby("ID").count()` groups the data by ID and counts occurrences. Since each ID is unique and `death_eaters` only includes the `"ID"` column, grouping simply shows that each ID appears once. This is not an appropriate estimate for `N`.

- Option 4: `int(death_eaters.get("ID").mean() * 2)` returns twice the mean of the sample IDs as an integer. The mean of a random sample of the numbers 1 through `N` usually falls about halfway between 1 and `N`. So we can appropriately estimate `N` by doubling this mean.

- Option 5: `death_eaters.shape[0]` returns the number of rows in `death_eaters` (ie. the sample size). The sample size does not reflect the total population size, making it an inappropriate estimate.


<average>66</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Each box that you selected in part (a) is an example of what?

( ) a distribution 
( ) a statistic 
( ) a parameter 
( ) a resample

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** a statistic

The options in part (a) calculate a numerical value from the random sample `death_eaters`. This fits the definition of a statistic.

<average>82</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Suppose you have access to a function called `estimate`, which takes in
a Series of Death Eater ID numbers and returns an estimate for `N`. Fill
in the blanks below to do the following:

-   Create an array named `boot_estimates`, containing 10,000 of these
    bootstrapped estimates of `N`, based on the data in `death_eaters`.

-   Set `left_72` to the **left endpoint** of a 72% confidence interval
    for `N`.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
        boot_estimates = np.array([])
        
        for i in np.arange(10000):
            boot_estimates = np.append(boot_estimates, __(a)__)

        left_72 = __(b)__
        


What goes in blank (a)?
# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** `estimate(death_eaters.sample(death_eaters.shape[0], replace=True).get("ID"))`

In the given code, we use a for loop to generate 10,000 bootstrapped estimates of `N` and append them to the array `boot_estimates`. Blank (a) specifically computes one bootstrapped estimate of `N`. Here's how key parts of the solution work:

- `death_eaters.sample(death_eaters.shape[0], replace=True)`: To bootstrap, we need to resample the data with replacement. The `sample()` function <a href="https://dsc-courses.github.io/bpd-reference/docs/statistical-inference/random%20sampling/df.sample()/" target="_blank">(see here)</a> takes as arguments the sample size (`death_eaters.shape[0]`) and whether to replace (`replace=True`).

- `.get("ID")`: Since `estimate()` takes a Series as input, we need to extract the ID column from the resample.

- `estimate()`: The resampled ID column is passed into the `estimate()` function to generate one bootstrapped estimate of N.

<average>62</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB
What goes in blank (b)?

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** `np.percentile(boot_estimates, 14)`

 A 72% confidence interval captures the middle 72% of our distribution. This leaves 28% of the data outside the interval, with 14% from the lower tail and 14% from the upper tail. Thus, the left endpoint corresponds to the 14th percentile of `boot_estimates`. The `np.percentile()` function <a href="https://dsc-courses.github.io/bpd-reference/docs/documentation/arrays-and-numpy/np.percentile()/" target="_blank">(see here)</a> takes as arguments the array to compute the percentile (`boot_estimates`) and the desired percentile (14).

<average>91</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB