# BEGIN PROB




Bertie Bott's Every Flavor Beans are a popular treat in the wizarding
world. They are jellybean candies sold in **boxes of 100 beans**,
containing a variety of flavors including chocolate, peppermint,
spinach, liver, grass, earwax, and paper. Luna's favorite flavor is
bacon.


Luna wants to estimate the proportion of bacon-flavored beans produced
at the Bertie Bott's bean factory. She buys a box of Bertie Bott's Every
Flavor Beans and finds that **4 of the 100 beans** inside are
bacon-flavored. Using this sample, she decides to construct an **86$\%$
CLT-based confidence interval** for the proportion of bacon-flavored
beans produced at the factory.


# BEGIN SUBPROB


Let's begin by solving a related problem that will help us in the later
parts of this question. Consider the following fact:


**For a sample of size 100 consisting of $0$'s and $1$'s, the maximum
possible width of an $86\%$ CLT-based confidence interval is
approximately $0.15$.**


Use this fact to find the value of `z` such that
`scipy.stats.norm.cdf(z)` evaluates to `0.07`. Give your answer as a
**number to one decimal place**.


::: center
:::


# BEGIN SOLUTION


**Answer:** $-1.5$


The 86% confidence interval for the population mean is given by:
$$
\left[
\text{sample mean} - |z|\cdot \frac{\text{sample SD}}{\sqrt{\text{sample size}}}, \
\text{sample mean} + |z|\cdot \frac{\text{sample SD}}{\sqrt{\text{sample size}}}
\right]
$$


Since the width is equal to the difference between the right and left endpoints,


$$
\text{width} = 2 \cdot |z| \cdot \frac{\text{sample SD}}{\sqrt{\text{sample size}}}
$$


We solve for $|z|$. The maximum width of our CI is given to be $0.15$, so we must also use the maximum possible standard deviation, $0.5$. we substitute the known values to obtain:


$$
0.15 = 2 \cdot |z| \cdot \frac{0.5}{\sqrt{100}}
$$


which leaves $|z| = 1.5$ after computation. To find the $z$ such that  `scipy.stats.norm.cdf(z)` evaluates to `0.07`, we realize that $z$ is the point under the normal curve, in standard units, left of which represents $7\%$ of the area under the entire curve. Note that `scipy.stats.norm.cdf(0)` evaluates to `0.5` (Recall: half of the area is left of the mean, which is zero in standard units). We must therefore take a negative value for $z$. Thus $z = -1.5$.


<average>55</average>


# END SOLUTION


# END SUBPROB


# BEGIN SUBPROB


Suppose that Luna's sample has a standard deviation of $0.2$. What are
the endpoints of her $86\%$ confidence interval? Give each endpoint as a
**number to two decimal places**.




# BEGIN SOLUTION


**Answer:** $[0.01, \ 0.07]$


Recall the formula for the width of an $86\%$ confidence interval:


$$
\text{width} = 2 \cdot |z| \cdot \frac{\text{sample SD}}{\sqrt{\text{sample size}}}
$$


where we found $|z| = 1.5$ in part (a). Instead of using the maximum sample SD, we will now use $0.2$ and compute the new width of the confidence interval. This results in


$$
\text{width} = 2 \cdot 1.5 \cdot \frac{0.2}{\sqrt{10}} = 0.06
$$


Since this is a CLT-based confidence interval for the population mean, the interval must be centered at the mean. We compute the interval using the structure from part (a), which leaves


$$
\left[
0.04 - \frac{1}{2} \cdot 0.06, \
0.04 + \frac{1}{2} \cdot 0.06
\right] = [0.01, \ 0.07]
$$


<average>37</average>


# END SOLUTION


# END SUBPROB


# BEGIN SUBPROB


Hermione thinks she can do a better job of estimating the proportion of
bacon-flavored beans, though she'll need a bigger sample to do so.
Hermione will collect a new sample and use it to construct another
$86\%$ confidence interval for the same parameter.


Under the assumption that Hermione's sample will have the same standard
deviation as Luna's sample, which was 0.2, **how many boxes** of Bertie
Bott's Every Flavor Beans must Hermione buy to guarantee that the width
of her $86\%$ confidence interval is at most $0.012$? Give your answer
as an **integer**.


::: center
:::


**Remember:** There are 100 beans in each box.


# BEGIN SOLUTION


**Answer:** $25$ boxes


Recall the formula for the width of an $86\%$ confidence interval:


$$
\text{width} = 2 \cdot |z| \cdot \frac{\text{sample SD}}{\sqrt{\text{sample size}}}
$$


where we must again use the fact that $|z| = 1.5$ from part (a). Here, we want a width that is *no larger* than $0.012$, **given** that our sample SD remains $0.2$. Plugging everything in:


$$
0.012 \geq 2 \cdot 1.5 \cdot \frac{0.2}{\sqrt{n}}
$$


Rearranging the expression to solve for $n$, we get


$$
\begin{align*}
n &\geq \left( \frac{3 \cdot 0.2}{0.012} \right)^2 \\
n &\geq \left( \frac{600}{12} \right)^2 \\
n &\geq (50)^2 \\
n &\geq 2500
\end{align*}
$$


However, $2500$ isn't our final answer. The question asks for the **number of boxes** Hermione must buy, given that each box contains 100 beans. The bound we computed above for $n$ corresponds to the minimum number of **beans** Hermione must observe. To get the minimum number of boxes, we simply divide the bound by $100$. The final answer is $25$ boxes.


<average>37</average>


# END SOLUTION


# END SUBPROB


# END PROB

