# BEGIN PROB


Bertie Bott's Every Flavor Beans are a popular treat in the wizarding
world. They are jellybean candies sold in **boxes of 100 beans**,
containing a variety of flavors including chocolate, peppermint,
spinach, liver, grass, earwax, and paper. Luna's favorite flavor is
bacon.

Luna wants to estimate the proportion of bacon-flavored beans produced
at the Bertie Bott's bean factory. She buys a box of Bertie Bott's Every
Flavor Beans and finds that **4 of the 100 beans** inside are
bacon-flavored. Using this sample, she decides to construct an **86$\%$
CLT-based confidence interval** for the proportion of bacon-flavored
beans produced at the factory.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Let's begin by solving a related problem that will help us in the later
parts of this question. Consider the following fact:

**For a sample of size 100 consisting of $0$'s and $1$'s, the maximum
possible width of an $86\%$ CLT-based confidence interval is
approximately $0.15$.**

Use this fact to find the value of `z` such that
`scipy.stats.norm.cdf(z)` evaluates to `0.07`. Give your answer as a
**number to one decimal place**.

::: center
:::

# BEGIN SOLUTION

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Suppose that Luna's sample has a standard deviation of $0.2$. What are
the endpoints of her $86\%$ confidence interval? Give each endpoint as a
**number to two decimal places**.


# BEGIN SOLUTION

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Hermione thinks she can do a better job of estimating the proportion of
bacon-flavored beans, though she'll need a bigger sample to do so.
Hermione will collect a new sample and use it to construct another
$86\%$ confidence interval for the same parameter.

Under the assumption that Hermione's sample will have the same standard
deviation as Luna's sample, which was 0.2, **how many boxes** of Bertie
Bott's Every Flavor Beans must Hermione buy to guarantee that the width
of her $86\%$ confidence interval is at most $0.012$? Give your answer
as an **integer**.

::: center
:::

**Remember:** There are 100 beans in each box.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB