# BEGIN PROB

Yutian wants to rent a one-bedroom apartment, so she decides to learn about the housing market by plotting a density histogram of the monthly rent for all one-bedroom apartments in the `apts` DataFrame. In her call to the DataFrame method `.plot`, she sets the bins using the parameter

<div style="text-align: center;">
  <pre><code class="python">
bins = np.arange(0, 10000, 100)
  </code></pre>
</div>

# BEGIN SUBPROB

How many bins will this histogram have?

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer:** $99$

`np.arange(start, stop, step)` takes the following three parameters as arguments.

- `start`: The starting value of the sequence (inclusive).
- `stop`: The last value of the sequence (exclusive).
- `step`: The difference between each two consecutive values.

This means that `np.arange(0, 10000, 100)` will create a NumPy array that starts at 0, and ends before it reaches 10000 - all while incrementing by 100 for each step. To calculate the number of bins within the parameter, we can write $\frac{\text{stop} - \text{start}}{\text{step}} - 1$.

Another way we can look at this is by taking a small sample of this sequence (such as `np.arange(0, 300, 100)`). This will create the array `np.array([0, 100, 200])` without including the stop argument (300). Note that the same equation holds true. 

**Note:** Mathematically, `np.arange(start, stop)` can be represented as $[\text{start}, \text{stop})$

<average>64</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Suppose there are 300 one-bedroom apartments in the `apts` DataFrame, and 15 of them cost between $2,300 (inclusive) and $2,400 (exclusive). How tall should the bar for the bin $[2300, 2400)$ be in the density histogram? Give your answer as a simplified fraction or exact decimal.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** $0.0005 = \frac{1}{2000}$

Before we start, we need to take note that the question is asking for the **density** of the bin, since we are representing the data in a density histogram. In order to calculate the density of the bin we use the following equation:

$$\frac{\text{Number of points in the bin}}{\text{Total number of points} \cdot \text{Width of bin}}$$

To solve, we plug in the following values into the equation:

- Number of points in the bin: $15$
- Total number of points: $300$
- Width of bin: $2400 - 2300 = 100$

$$\frac{15}{300 \cdot 100} = \frac{1}{20 \cdot 100} = \frac{1}{2000}$$

Therefore, the density of this bin is $\frac{1}{2000}$

<average>51</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Suppose some of the one-bedroom apartments in the `apts` DataFrame cost more than $5,000. Next, Yutian plots another density histogram with 

<div style="text-align: center;">
  <pre><code class="python">
bins = np.arange(0, 5000, 100)
  </code></pre>
</div>

Consider the bin $[2300, 2400)$ in this new histogram. Is it taller, shorter, or the same height as in the old histogram, where the bins were `np.arange(0, 10000, 100)`?

( ) Taller
( ) Shorter
( ) The same height
( ) Not enough information to answer

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** Taller

In this histogram, we will only have data that that fits within the constraints of $[0, 5000)$. Since we are told that there are apartments that fit outside of the constraint, there will be an overall smaller number of points points represented by the histogram.

Taking the histogram density estimation equation, 
$\frac{\text{Number of points in the bin}}{\text{Total number of points} \cdot \text{Width of bin}}$, we know that our total number of points have decreased (with respect to the constraints shown in the bins). So, a smaller denominator would lead to a proportional increase in the resulting product. Because the resulting product increases, this means that the height of this particular bin will be **taller**.

<average>55</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB