# BEGIN PROB

We want to use the data in `apts` to test the following hypotheses:

- **Null Hypothesis:** The rent of the apartments in UTC and the rents of the apartments in other neighborhoods come from the same distribution.
- **Alternative Hypothesis:** The rents of the apartments in UTC are **higher** than the rents of the apartments in other neighborhoods on average.

While we could answer this question with a permutation test, in this problem we will explore another way to test these hypotheses. Since this is a question of whether two samples come from the same unknown population distribution, we need to construct a "population" to sample from. We will construct our "population" in the same way as we would for a permutation test, except we will draw our sample differently. Instead of shuffling, we will draw our two samples **with replacement** from the constructed "population". We will use as our test statistic the difference in means between the two samples (in the order **UTC minus elsewhere**).

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Suppose the data in `apts`, which has 800 rows, includes 85 apartments in UTC. Fill in the blanks below so that `p_val` evaluates to the p-value for this hypothesis test, which we will test according to the strategy outlined above.

```py
diffs = np.array([])
for i in np.arange(10000):
    utc_sample_mean = __(a)__
    elsewhere_sample_mean = __(b)__
    diffs = np.append(diffs, utc_sample_mean - elsewhere_sample_mean)
observed_utc_mean = __(c)__
observed_elsewhere_mean = __(d)__
observed_diff = observed_utc_mean - observed_elsewhere_mean
p_val = np.count_nonzero(diffs __(e)__ observed_diff) / 10000
```

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:**

- (a) `apts.sample(85, replace=True).get("Rent").mean()`
- (b) `apts.sample(715, replace=True).get("Rent").mean()`
- (c) `apts[apts.get("neighborhood")=="UTC"].get("Rent").mean()`
- (d) `apts[apts.get("neighborhood")!="UTC"].get("Rent").mean()`
- (e) `>=`

For blanks (a) and (b), we can gather from context (hypothesis test description, variable names, and being inside of a for loop) that this portion of our code needs to repeatedly generate samples of size 85 (the number of observations in our dataset that are from UTC) and size 715 (the number of observations in our dataset that are not from UTC). We will then take the means of these samples and assign them to `utc_sample_mean` and `elsewhere_sample_mean`. We can generate these samples, with replacement, from the rows in our dataframe, hinting that the correct code for blanks (a) and (b) are: `apts.sample(85, replace=True).get("Rent").mean()` and `apts.sample(715, replace=True).get("Rent").mean()`.

For blanks (c) and (d), this portion of the code needs to take our original dataframe and gather the observed means for apartments from UTC and apartments not from UTC. We can achieve this by querying our dataframe, grabbing the rent column, and taking the mean. This implies our correct code for blanks (c) and (d) are: `apts[apts.get("neighborhood")=="UTC"].get("Rent").mean()` and `apts[apts.get("neighborhood")!="UTC"].get("Rent").mean()`.

For blank (e), we need to determine, based off of our null and alternative hypotheses, how we should compare the differences in found in our simulations against our observed difference. TODO

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Now suppose we tested the same hypothesses with a permutation test using the same test statistic. Which of your answers above (part a) would need to change? Select all that apply.

[ ] blank \(a\)
[ ] blank \(b\)
[ ] blank \(c\)
[ ] blank \(d\)
[ ] blank \(e\)
[ ] None of these.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** Blanks \(a\) and  \(b\) would need to change. For a permutation test, we would shuffle the labels in our `apts` dataset and find the `utc_sample_mean` and `elsewhere_sample_mean` of this new shuffled dataset. Note that this process is done **without replacement** and that both of these sample means are calculated from **the same shuffle of our dataset**.

As it currently stands, our code for blanks (a) and (b) do not reflect this; the current process is **sampling with replacement** from **two different shuffles of our dataset.** So, blanks (a) and (b) must change.

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Now suppose we test the following pair of hypotheses.

- **Null Hypothesis:** The rents of the apartments in UTC and the rents of the apartments in other neighborhoods come from the same distribution.
- **Alternative Hypothesis:** The rents of the apartments in UTC are **different** than the rents of the apartments in other neighborhoods on average.

Then we can test this pair of hypotheses by constructing a 95% confidence interval for a parameter and checking if some particular number, $x$, falls in that confidence interval. To do this:

(i) What parameter should we construct a 95% confidence interval for? Your answer should be a phrase or short sentence.

(ii) What is the value of $x$? Your answer should be a number.

(iii) Suppose $x$ is in the 95% confidence interval we create. Select all valid conclusions below. 

[ ] We reject the null hypothesis at the 5% significance level.
[ ] We reject the null hypothesis at the 1% significance level.
[ ] We fail to reject the null hypothesis at the 5% significance level.
[ ] We fail to reject the null hypothesis at the 1% significance level.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:**

- \(i\) The average rent of an apartment in UTC minus the average rent of an apartment elsewhere, or vice versa.
- \(ii\) 0.
- \(iii\) 3rd and 4th options.

For (i), we need to construct a confidence interval for a parameter that allows us to make assessments about our null and alternative hypotheses. Since these two hypotheses discuss whether or not there exists a **difference, on average**, for rents of apartments in UTC versus rents of apartments elsewhere, our parameter should be: **the difference in rent for apartments in UTC and apartments elsewhere on average, or vice versa** (The average rent of an apartment in UTC minus the average rent of an apartment elsewhere, or vice versa.)

For (ii), $x$ must be 0 because the value zero holds special significance in our confidence interval; the inclusion of zero within our confidence interval suggests that "there is no difference between rent of apartments in UTC and apartments elsewhere, on average". Whether or not zero is included within our confidence interval tells us whether we should fail to reject or reject the null hypothesis.

For (iii), if $x = 0$ lies within our 95% confidence interval, it suggests that there is a sizable chance that there is no difference between rent of apartments in UTC and apartments elsewhere, on average, which is a conclusion in favor of our null hypothesis; this means that any options which reject the null hypothesis, such as the 1st and 2st options, are wrong. The 3rd option (correctly) fails to the reject the null hypothesis at the 5% significance level, which is exactly what a 95% confidence interval that includes $x = 0$ would support. The 4th option is also correct because any evidence weak enough to fail to reject the null hypothesis at the 5% significance level will also fail at a tighter, more rigorous significance level (such as 1%).
# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB