# BEGIN PROB

Consider the following four slopes.

1. The slope of the regression line predicting `"Rent"` from `"Sqft"`. 
2. The slope of the regression line predicting `"Sqft"` from `"Rent"`. 
3. The slope of the regression like predicting `"Rent"` from `"Bed"`
4. The slope of the regression line predicting `"Bed"` from `"Rent"`.

Note that we don't have enough information to calculate all of these slopes, but you should be able to answer the questions below based not on calculations, but on the interpretation of what these slopes represent in the context of housing.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Which of the above slopes do you expect to be the **largest**?

( ) 1
( ) 2
( ) 3
( ) 4

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** Option 3. 

The largest slope out of these four options will be the slope that represents the greatest increase in y-units per x-unit: $$m = \dfrac{\Delta y}{\Delta x}$$.

Option 1, which predicts `"Rent"` from `"Sqft"`, has large values for its y-variable (`"Rent"`), but also has large values for its x-variable (`"Sqft"`). The resulting slope is not that big, as it is a fraction of large values over large values. 

Option 2, which predicts `"Sqft"` from `"Rent"`, is also not that big of a slope for the same reasons as Option 1 (slope is a fraction of large values over large values).

Option 3, which predicts `"Rent"` from `"Bed"`, has large values for its y-variable (`"Rent"`), but has small values for its x-variable (`"Bed"`). The resulting slope is incredibly big, as it is a fraction of large values over small values. 

Option 4, which predicts `"Bed"` from `"Rent"`, has small values for its y-variable (`"Bed"`), but has large values for its x-variable (`"Rent"`). The resulting slope is incredibly small, as it is a fraction of small values over large values. 

Of all four options, Option 3 is the largest slope.

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Which of the above slopes do you expect to be the **smallest**?

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** Option 4. 

As explained above, Option 4 is the smallest slope.

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB