# BEGIN PROB

Imagine a DataFrame constructed from `apts` called `bedrooms`, which has one row for each bedroom in an apartment in `apts`. More specifically, a one bedroom apartment in `apts` will appear as one row in `bedrooms`, a two bedroom apartment in `apts` will appear as two rows in `bedrooms`, and a three bedroom apartment in `apts` will appear as three rows in `bedrooms`. Studio apartments will not appear in `bedrooms` at all.

The `"Apartment ID"` column of `bedrooms` contains the `"Apartment ID"` of the apartment in `apts`. Notice that this is not the index of `bedrooms` since these values are no longer unique. The `"Cost"` column of `bedrooms` contains the rent of the apartment divided by the number of bedrooms. All rows of `bedrooms` with a shared `"Apartment ID"` should therefore have the same value in the `"Cost"` column.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Recall that `apts` has 800 rows. How many rows does `bedrooms` have?

( ) 800
( ) More than 800.
( ) Less than 800.
( ) Not enough information.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** Not enough information.

It is entirely possible that `bedrooms` has more or less than 800 rows; we don't have enough info to tell.

If most of the 800 rows in `apts` are studio apartments, most rows in `apts` will not have corresponding rows in `bedrooms` (studio apartments are not reflected in `bedrooms`). This would lower the total number of rows in `bedrooms` to less than 800. 

If most of the 800 rows in `apts` are three-bedroom apartments, most rows in `apts` will each have three corresponding rows in `bedrooms`. This would increase the total number of rows in `bedrooms` to more than 800. 

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Suppose `no_studio` is defined as follows. (Remember, we previously converted the `"Beds"` column to integers.)

```py
no_studio = apts[apts.get("Bed") != 0]
```

Which of the following statements evaluate to the same value as the expression below?

```py
bedrooms.get("Cost").mean()
```

Select all that apply.

[ ] `no_studio.get("Rent").mean()`
[ ] `no_studio.get("Rent").sum() / apts.get("Bed").sum()`
[ ] `(no_studio.get("Rent") / no_studio.get("Bed")).mean()`
[ ] `(no_studio.get("Rent") / no_studio.get("Bed").sum()).sum()`
[ ] `no_studio.get("Rent").mean() / no_studio.get("Bed").mean()`
[ ] None of these.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** Options 2, 4, and 5.

Let's refer to `bedrooms.get("Cost").mean()` as "the bedroom code" for this solution.

Option 1 is incorrect. Option 1 takes the mean of all non-studio apartment rents in `apts`. This value is significantly larger than what is produced by the bedroom code (average value of the "Cost" column in `bedrooms`), since all "Cost" values in `bedrooms` are less than or equal to their corresponding "Rent" values in `apts`. So, these two expressions cannot be equal.

Option 2 is correct. We can view the bedroom code as the same as summing all of the values in the "Cost" column of `bedrooms` and dividing by the total number of rows of `bedrooms`. This is a fraction; we can make some clever substitutions in this fraction to show it is the same as the code for Option 2:

<br>

$$\dfrac{\text{sum of "Cost" in bedrooms}}{\# \text{ of rows in bedrooms}} \to \dfrac{\text{sum of "Rent" in no}\_\text{studio}}{\# \text{ of rows in bedrooms}} \to \dfrac{\text{sum of "Rent" in no}\_\text{studio}}{\text{sum of "Bed" in apts}}$$

<br>

Option 3 is incorrect. The first part of Option 3, `no_studio.get("Rent") / no_studio.get("Bed")`, produces a Series that contains all the values in the "Cost" column of `no_studio`, except without duplicated rows for multi-bed apartments. Taking the `.mean()` of this look-alike Series is not the same as taking the `.mean()` of the bedroom code, so these two expressions cannot be equal.

Option 4 is correct. We can show the bedroom code is equivalent to the code in Option 4 as follows:

<br>

$$\dfrac{\text{sum of "Cost" in bedrooms}}{\# \text{ of rows in bedrooms}} \to \dots \to \dfrac{\text{sum of "Rent" in no}\_\text{studio}}{\text{sum of "Bed" in apts}} \to $$

$$ \dfrac{\text{sum of "Rent" in no}\_\text{studio}}{\text{sum of "Bed" in no}\_\text{studio}} \to
\text{sum} \left( \dfrac{\text{each entry in "Rent" in no}\_\text{studio}}{\text{sum of "Bed" in no}\_\text{studio}} \right) $$

<br>

Option 5 is correct. We can show the bedroom code is equivalent to the code in Option 5 as follows:

<br>

$$\dfrac{\text{sum of "Cost" in bedrooms}}{\# \text{ of rows in bedrooms}} \to \dots \to \dfrac{\text{sum of "Rent" in no}\_\text{studio}}{\text{sum of "Bed" in no}\_\text{studio}} \to$$

$$\dfrac{\left(\dfrac{\text{sum of "Rent" in no}\_\text{studio}}{\# \text{ of rows in no}\_\text{studio}}\right)}{\left(\dfrac{\text{sum of "Bed" in no}\_\text{studio}}{\# \text{ of rows in no}\_\text{studio}}\right)} \to \dfrac{\text{mean of "Rent" in no}\_\text{studio}}{\text{mean of "Bed" in no}\_\text{studio}}$$

<br>


# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB