# BEGIN PROB

You want to test the following hypotheses:

**Null Hypothesis:** Everyone who applies for an internship at Google
has **a 20% chance** of receiving a job offer, independently of all
other applicants.

**Alternative Hypothesis:** Everyone who applies for an internship at
Google has **a more than 20% chance** of receiving a job offer,
independently of all other applicants.

To test these hypotheses, you collected information from $50$ applicants
and found that $16$ of them received a job offer.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Fill in the blanks in the code below to calculate the p-value for a
hypothesis test where the test statistic is the number of applicants,
out of $50$, who receive a job offer.
```py
offers_array = np.array([])

for i in np.arange(10000):
    num_offers = ___(a)___
    offers_array = ___(b)___

p_value = ___(c)___
p_value
```

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer**:\
`(a)`: `np.random.multinomial(50,[0.2,0.8])[0] or np.random.choice([0,1], 50, p = [0.80, 0.20]).sum()`\
`(b)`: `np.append(offers_array, num_offers)`\
`(c)`: `np.count_nonzero(offers_array >= 16)/10000 or np.mean(offers_array >= 16)`

<average>70</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Suppose the p-value comes out to $0.03$. What conclusion do we draw?

( ) We reject the null hypothesis at both the $0.01$ and $0.05$
significance levels.
( ) We fail to reject the null hypothesis at the $0.01$ significance
level and we reject the\
null hypothesis at the $0.05$ significance level.
( ) We reject the null hypothesis at the $0.01$ significance level and
we fail to reject the\
null hypothesis at the $0.05$ significance level.
( ) We fail to reject the null hypothesis at both the $0.01$ and $0.05$
significance levels.

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer**: Option 2

<average>62</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB # BEGIN SUBPROB

Which of the following test statistics would have also been appropriate
to test these hypotheses? Select all that apply.

[ ] Number of applicants, out of $50$, who do not receive a job offer.
[ ] Proportion of applicants that receive a job offer.
[ ] The sum of the absolute differences between $[0.2, 0.8]$ and the
distribution of\
applicants into two categories: those getting a job offer and those not
getting a job\
offer.
[ ] Absolute difference between $20$ and the number of applicants, out
of $50$, who receive\
a job offer.
[ ] None of the above.

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer**: Options 1 and 2

<average>68</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB