# BEGIN PROB

Vanessa is a big Formula 1 racing fan, and wants to plan a trip to
Monaco, where the Monaco Grand Prix is held. Monaco is an example of a
"city-state" --- that is, a city that is its own country. Singapore is
another example of a city-state.

We'll say that a row of `sun` corresponds to a city-state if its
`"Country"` and `"City"` values are equal.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Fill in the blanks so that the expression below is equal to the total
number of sunshine hours in October of all city-states in `sun`.

```py
    sun[__(a)__].__(b)__
```

What goes in blank (a)?


What goes in blank (b)?

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer**:\

**What goes in blank (a)?** `sun.get("Country") == sun.get("City")`\
This part of code compares the `"Country"` column to the `"City"` column for each row in the `sun` DataFrame. It returns a Boolean series where each value is `True` if the corresponding `"Country"` and `"City"` are the same (indicating a city-state) and `False` otherwise.

**What goes in blank (b)?** `.get("Oct").sum()`\
This part of code retrieves the `"Oct"` column, which represents the sunshine hours in October, and then computes the sum of its values. By using this after filtering for city-states, it calculates the total sunshine hours for October across all city-states in the `sun` DataFrame.

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB


# BEGIN SUBPROB

Fill in the blanks below so that the expression below is also equal to
the total number of sunshine hours in October of all city-states in
`sun`.

*Note: What goes in blank (b) is the same as what goes in blank (b)
above.*

```py
    sun.get(["Country"]).merge(__(c)__).__(b)__
```

What goes in blank (c)?

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer**: `sun, left_on = "Country", right_on = "City"`\

Let's break down the code:

- `sun.get(["Country"])`: This extracts just the `"Country"` column from the `sun` DataFrame. The resulting DataFrame consists of a single column, `"Country"`, and as many rows as there are in the original `sun` DataFrame. Each row in this new DataFrame will have the name of the country corresponding to the respective row in the original `sun` DataFrame.

- `.merge(sun, left_on="Country", right_on="City")`: Here, we're using the `.merge()` function to join our **left** DataFrame (which is the DataFrame with just the `"Country"` column) with the entire `sun` DataFrame (serving as the **right** DataFrame). The merge is based on matching the `"Country"` from the left DataFrame with the `"City"` from the right DataFrame. This way, rows in the resulting DataFrame correspond to city-states, as it only contains entries where a country's name is the same as a city's name.

- `.get("Oct").sum()`: After merging, we use the `.get("Oct")` to retrieve the `"Oct"` column, which represents the sunshine hours in October. Finally, `.sum()` computes the total number of sunshine hours in October for all the identified city-states.

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB