# BEGIN PROB

Gabriel is originally from Texas and is trying to convince his friends
that Texas has better weather than California. Sophia, who is originally
from San Diego, is determined to prove Gabriel wrong.

Coincidentally, both are born in February, so they decide to look at the
mean number of sunshine hours of all cities in California and Texas in
February. They find that the mean number of sunshine hours for
California cities in February is 275, while the mean number of sunshine
hours for Texas cities in February is 250. They decide to test the
following hypotheses:

-   **Null Hypothesis**: The distribution of sunshine hours in February
    for cities in California and Texas are drawn from the same
    population distribution.

-   **Alternative Hypothesis**: The distribution of sunshine hours in
    February for cities in California and Texas are not drawn from the
    same population distribution; rather, California cities see more
    sunshine hours in February on average than Texas cities.

The test statistic they decide to use is:

$$\text{mean sunshine hours in California cities – mean sunshine hours in Texas cities}$$

To simulate data under the null, Sophia proposes the following plan:

1.  Count the number of Texas cities, and call that number `t`. Count
    the total number of cities in both California and Texas, and call
    that number `n`.

2.  Find the total number of sunshine hours across all California and
    Texas cities in February, and call that number `total`.

3.  Take a random sample of `t` sunshine hours from the entire sequence
    of California and Texas sunshine hours in February in the dataset.
    Call this random sample `t_samp`.

4.  Find the difference between the mean of the values that are not in
    `t_samp` (the California sample) and the mean of the values that are
    in `t_samp` (the Texas sample).

# BEGIN SUBPROB

What type of test is this?

( ) Hypothesis test 
( ) Permutation test

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer**: Permutation test

Any time we want to decide whether two samples look like they were drawn from the same population distribution, we are conducting a permutation test. In this case, the two samples are (1) the sample of California sunshine hours in February and (2) the sample of Texas sunshine hours in February.

Even though Gabriel and Sophia aren't "shuffling" the way we normally do when conducting a permutation test, they're still performing a permutation test. They're combining the sunshine hours from both states into a single dataset and then randomly reallocating them into two new groups, one representing California and the other Texas, without regard to their original labels.

<average>52</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

Complete the implementation of the function `one_stat`, which takes in a
DataFrame `df` that has two columns --- `"State"`, which is either
`"California"` or `"Texas"`, and `"Feb"`, which contains the number of
sunshine hours in February for each city --- and returns a single
simulated test statistic using Sophia's plan.

```py
    def one_stat(df):
        # You don't need to fill in the ...,
        # assume we've correctly filled them in so that
        # texas_only has only the "Texas" rows from df.
        texas_only = ...
        t = texas_only.shape[0]
        n = df.shape[0]
        
        total = df.get("Feb").sum()
        
        t_samp = np.random.choice(df.get("Feb"), t, __(b)__)
        
        c_mean = __(c)__
        t_mean = t_samp.sum() / t
        return c_mean - t_mean
```

# BEGIN SUBPROB

What goes in blank (b)?

( ) `replace=True` 
( ) `replace=False`

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer**: `replace=False`

In order for there to be no overlap between the elements in the Texas sample and California sample, the Texas sample needs to be taken out of the total collection of sunshine hours without replacement.

<average>30</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB


# BEGIN SUBPROB

What goes in blank (c)? *(Hint: Our solution uses 4 of the variables
that are defined before `c_mean`.)*

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer**: `(total - t_samp.sum) / (n - t)`

For the `c_mean` calculation, which represents the mean sunshine hours for the California cities in the simulation, we need to subtract the total sunshine hours of the Texas sample (`t_samp.sum()`) from the total sunshine hours of both states (`total`). This gives us the sum of the California sunshine hours in the simulation. We then divide this sum by the number of California cities, which is the total number of cities (`n`) minus the number of Texas cities (`t`), to get the mean sunshine hours for California cities.

<average>21</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

Fill in the blanks below to accurately complete the provided statement.

"If Sophia and Gabriel want to test the null hypothesis that the mean
number of sunshine hours in February in the two states is equal using a
different tool, they could use bootstrapping to create a confidence
interval for the true value of the test statistic they used in the above
test and check whether \_\_(d)\_\_ is in the interval.\"


# BEGIN SUBPROB

What goes in blank (d)? Your answer should be a specific number.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer**: 0

To conduct a hypothesis test using a confidence interval, our null hypothesis must be of the form "the population parameter is equal to $x$"; the test is conducted by checking whether $x$ is in the specified interval.

Here, Sophia and Gabriel want to test whether the mean number of sunshine hours in February for the two states is equal; since the confidence interval they created was for the difference in mean sunshine hours, they really want to check whether the difference in mean sunshine hours is 0. (They created a confidence interval for the true value of $a - b$, and want to test whether $a = b$; this is the same as testing whether $a - b = 0$.)

<average>43</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB