# BEGIN PROB

Suhani's passport is currently being renewed, and so she can't join
those on international summer vacations. However, her last final exam is
today, and so she decides to road trip through California this week
while everyone else takes their finals.

The chances that it is sunny this Monday and Tuesday, in various cities
in California, are given below. The event that it is sunny on Tuesday in
Los Angeles depends on the event that it is sunny on Monday in Los
Angeles, but other than that, all other events in the table are
independent of one another.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

(2.5 pts) What is the probability that it is not sunny in San Diego on
Monday and not sunny in San Diego on Tuesday? Give your answer as a
**positive integer percentage** between 0% and 100%.

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

(2.5 pts) What is the probability that it is sunny in at least one of
the three cities on Monday?

( ) $3\%$ ( ) $31.5\%$ ( ) $40\%$ ( ) $68.5\%$ ( ) $75\%$ ( ) $97\%$

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

What is the probability that it is sunny in Los Angeles on Tuesday?

( ) $15\%$ ( ) $22.5\%$ ( ) $40\%$ ( ) $45\%$ ( ) $60\%$ ( ) $88.8\%$

# END SUBPROB

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Fill in the blanks so that `exactly_two` evaluates to the probability
that exactly two of San Diego, Los Angeles, and San Francisco are sunny
on Monday.

*Hint: If `arr` is an array, then `np.prod(arr)` is the product of the
elements in `arr`.*

    monday = np.array([7 / 10, 3 / 5, 3 / 4]) # Taken from the table.
    exactly_two = __(a)__
    for i in np.arange(3):
        exactly_two = exactly_two + np.prod(monday) * __(b)__

What goes in blank (a)?

::: responsebox
0.5in
:::

What goes in blank (b)?

( ) `monday[i]`

( ) `1 - monday[i]`

( ) `1 / monday[i]`

( ) `monday[i] / (1 - monday[i])`

( ) `(1 - monday[i]) / monday[i]`

( ) `1 / (1 - monday[i])`

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB