# BEGIN PROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

You're interested in comparing the `"avg_housing_cost"` across different `"family_type"` groups for San Diego County, CA specifically. Which type of visualization would be most appropriate?\

( ) Scatter plot
( ) Line plot
( ) Bar chart
( ) Histogram

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** Bar chart\

`"family_type"` is a categorical variable, and we use bar charts to visualize the distribution of categorical variables.

- A scatter plot visualizes the relationship between two numerical variables, but we are only using one numerical variable here (`"avg_housing_cost"`).
- A line plot is used to visualize the trend between two numerical variables, but we are only using one numerical variable.
- A histogram is used to visualize the distribution of numerical variables, but we want to see the distribution of the categorical variable `"family_type"`.

<average>89</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Suppose we run the three lines of code below.

    families = living_cost.groupby("family_type").median()
    sorted_families = families.sort_values(by="avg_housing_cost")
    result = sorted_families.get("avg_childcare_cost").iloc[0]

Which of the following does `result` evaluate to?

( ) The median `"avg_childcare_cost"` of the `"family_type"` with the lowest median `"avg_housing_cost"`.
( ) The median `"avg_childcare_cost"` of the `"family_type"` with the highest median `"avg_housing_cost"`.
( ) The median `"avg_housing_cost"` of the `"family_type"` with the lowest median `"avg_childcare_cost"`.
( ) The median `"avg_housing_cost"` of the `"family_type"` with the highest median `"avg_childcare_cost"`.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** The median `"avg_childcare_cost"` of the `"family_type"` with the lowest median `"avg_housing_cost"`.\

When we grouped `living_cost` by `"family_type"`, `families` is a DataFrame with one row per `"family_type"`. Using the `.median()` aggregation method takes the median of all numerical columns per `"family_type"`.

`sorted_families` is the `families` DataFrame, but sorted in ascending order based on the  `"avg_housing_cost"` column. The first row of `sorted_families` is the `"family_type"` with the lowest median  `"avg_housing_cost"`, and the last row of `sorted_families` is the `"family_type"` with the highest median  `"avg_housing_cost"`.

In the last line of code, we’re getting the `"avg_childcare_cost"` column from the `sorted_families` DataFrame. We then use `iloc` to get the first entry in the `"avg_childcare_cost"` column. Since `sorted_families` is sorted in ascending order, this means that we’re getting the lowest median in the column. Therefore, `result` evaluates to the median `"avg_childcare_cost"` of the `"family_type"` with the lowest median `"avg_housing_cost"`.

<average>82</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Suppose we define `another_result` as follows.

    another_result = (living_cost.groupby("state").count()
                      .sort_values(by="median_income", ascending=False)
                      .get("median_income").index[0])

What does `another_result` represent?

( ) The state with the highest median income.
( ) The median income in the state with the highest median income.
( ) The state with the most counties.
( ) The median income in the state with the most counties.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** The state with the most counties.\

The `living_cost` DataFrame is being grouped by the `"state"` column, so there is now one row per `"state"`. By using the `.count()` aggregation method, the columns in the DataFrame will contain the number of rows in `living_count` for each `"state"`. All of the columns will also be the same after using `.count()`, so they will all contain the distribution of `"state"`. Since `living_cost` has data on every county in the US, the grouped DataFrame represents the number of counties that each state has. 

We then sort the DataFrame in descending order, so the state with the most counties is at the top of the DataFrame. The last line of the expression gets a column and uses `.index` to get the state corresponding to the first entry, which happens to be the state with the most counties and the value that gets assigned to `another_result`.

Since all the columns are the same, it doesn’t matter which column we pick to use in the `.sort_values()` method. In this case, we used the `"median_income"` column, but picking any other column will produce the same result.

<average>65</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Which of the following DataFrames has exactly four columns?

( ) `living_cost.groupby("family_type").min()`
( ) `living_cost.groupby("family_type").sum()`
( ) `living_cost.groupby("family_type").count()`
( ) None of the above.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** `living_cost.groupby("family_type").sum()`\

Since we can’t take the sum of columns with categorical data, all of the columns in `living_cost` that contain non-numerical data are dropped after we use the `.sum()` aggregation method. There are four columns in `living_cost` that have numerical data (`"is_metro"`, `"avg_housing_cost"`, `"avg_childcare_cost"`, and `"median_income"`). Since Python can take the sum of these numerical columns, these four columns are kept. Therefore, the resulting DataFrame has exactly four columns.

Although `"is_metro"` contains Boolean values, Python can still calculate the sum of this column. The Boolean value `True` corresponds to 1 and `False` corresponds to 0.

<average>35</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Suppose we define the Series `three_columns` to be the concatenation of
three columns of the `living_cost` DataFrame as follows.

    three_columns = (living_cost.get("state") + " " +
                     living_cost.get("county") + " " + 
                     living_cost.get("family_type"))

For example, the first element of `three_columns` is the string
`"CA San Diego County 1a2c"` (refer back to the first row of
`living_cost` provided in the data overview).

What does the following expression evaluate to?

    (living_cost.assign(geo_family=three_columns)
                .groupby("geo_family").count()
                .shape[0])

( ) $10$, the number of distinct `"family_type"` values.
( ) $50$, the number of states in the US.
( ) $500$, the number of combinations of states in the US and `"family_type"` values.
( ) $3143$, the number of counties in the US.
( ) $31430$, the number of rows in the `living_cost` DataFrame.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** $31430$, the number of rows in the `living_cost` DataFrame.\

The first line of the expression creates a new column in `living_cost`, called `"geo_family"` that represents the concatenation of the values in `"three_columns"`. When we group the DataFrame by `"geo_family"`, we create a new DataFrame that contains a row for every unique value in `"three_columns"`. `"three_columns"` has various combinations of `"state"`, `"country"`, and `"family_type"`. Since it’s given in the DataFrame description that each of the 31430 rows of the DataFrame represents a different combination of `"state"`, `"country"`, and `"family_type"`, this means that the grouped DataFrame has 31430 unique combinations as well. Therefore, when we use `.shape[0]` to get the number of rows in the grouped DataFrame in the last line of the expression, we get the same value as the number of rows in the `living_cost` DataFrame, 31430.

<average>74</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB