# BEGIN PROB

Suppose we define the three variables below.

    J = living_cost.get("county") == "Benton County"
    K = living_cost.get("state") == "IN"
    L = living_cost.get("family_type") == "1a2c"

Feel free to use these variables in your solutions to the following
questions.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Fill in the blanks so that the expression below evaluates to the average
yearly childcare cost for families with one adult and two children in
Benton County, IN.

        __(a)__.__(b)__.iloc[0]

1.  What goes in blank (a)?

2.  What goes in blank (b)?

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** 

1. `living_cost[J & K & L]`

The first step is to query the rows in the DataFrame that meet our specific criteria.  In this case, we want the rows in the DataFrame where the county is `"Benton County"`, the state is `"IN"`, and the family has 1 adult and 2 children.  `J`, `K`, and `L` specify these criteria. When used to query the `living_cost` DataFrame, we are able to obtain a DataFrame with only one row, corresponding this family type in this specific county.

<average>69</average>

**Answer:** 

2. `get("avg_childcare_cost")`

Once we have a DataFrame that contains the row we need, we need to use it to get the average yearly childcare cost. To do that, we get out the `"avg_childcare_cost"` column and access the entry in row 0 with `.iloc[0]`. This works because after querying, there is only one row, and it corresponds exactly to the families with one adult and two children in Benton County, IN.
<average>57</average>



# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Fill in the blanks so that the expression below evaluates to the number
of states with a county named Benton County.

        __(c)__.__(d)__ / 10

1.  What goes in blank (c)?


2.  What goes in blank (d)?


# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** 

1. `living_cost[J]`

Since we want to find how many states have a county named `"Benton County"`, we first want to obtain all the rows of the DataFrame where the county is `"Benton County"`.  Variable `J` specifies this condition, so we use it to query and obtain a DataFrame with the rows in `living_cost` where the county is `"Benton County."`

<average>60</average>

**Answer:** 

2. `shape[0]`

Now that we have all the rows in the DataFrame where the county is `"Benton County"`, let's consider how many rows it has. Each row of this DataFrame represents a unique combination of `"state"` and `"family_type"` for counties called `"Benton County"`. We know from the data description that each of the ten family structures is present in each county. This means that for each state with a county called `"Benton County"`, our DataFrame has exactly ten rows. Therefore, the number of states with a county called `"Benton County"` is the total number of rows in our DataFrame divided by ten. Therefore, we should fill in blank (d) with `.shape[0]` to extract the number of rows from our DataFrame.

<average>40</average>


# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB
