# BEGIN PROB


Suppose we want to assign a new column named `"family_size"` to
`living_cost` that contains the total number of people in each family,
stored as an int. We do so as follows.

    living_cost = living_cost.assign(
                  family_size=living_cost.get("family_type").apply(num_people))

Which of the following options correctly define the function
`num_people` such that the line above adds the `"family_size"` column as
desired? **Select all that apply.**

*Hint:* You can access an individual character in a string using the
position number in square brackets. For example, `"midterm"[0]`
evaluates to `"m"` and `"midterm"[1]` evaluates to `"i"`.

    # Option 1
    def num_people(fam): 
        return int(fam[0]) + int(fam[2])
    ------------------------------------
    # Option 2
    def num_people(fam):
        return int(fam[0] + fam[2])
    ------------------------------------
    # Option 3
    def num_people(fam):
        x = int(fam[0] + fam[2])
        return int(x / 10) + x % 10
    ------------------------------------
    # Option 4
    def num_people(fam):
        x = fam.strip("c").split("a")
        return int(x[0]) + int(x[1])
    ------------------------------------
    # Option 5
    def num_people(fam):
        x = 0
        for i in fam:
            if i % 2 == 0:
                x = x + 1
        return x
    ------------------------------------
    # Option 6
    def num_people(fam):
        x = 0
        for i in np.arange(len(fam)):
            if i % 2 == 0:
                x = x + int(fam[i])
        return x


[ ] Option 1
[ ] Option 2
[ ] Option 3
[ ] Option 4
[ ] Option 5
[ ] Option 6
[ ] None of the above.


# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Answer:** Options 1, 3, 4, 6

Option 1: In order to get the number of people within a family, we can look at the character at position 0 (for the number of adults) and the character at position 2 (for the number of children). Converting each character into an int and adding these ints yields the correct results.

Option 2: This is similar to Option 1, however, the key difference is that the separate strings are concatenated first, then converted into an integer afterwards. Remember that the plus sign between two strings concatenates the strings together, and does not add mathematically. For example, on a family type  of `"1a2c"`, `"1"` and `"2"` will be extracted and concatenated together as `"12"`, then converted to the int 12. This is returned instead of the value 3 that we are looking for.

Option 3: This option is similar to Option 2, however, it includes an extra step after concatenation. `int(x/10)` gets the value in the tens place, taking advantage of the fact that the `int()` function always rounds down. At the same time, `x % 10` gets the value in the ones place by calculating the remainder upon division by ten. Looking at the example of `"1a2c"`, the first line will set `x = 12` and then `int(12/10)` will yield 1 while `12 % 10` yields 2. Adding these together achieves the correct answer of 3.

Option 4: This option is similar to Option 1, but includes the initial step of removing `"c"` from the string and separating by `"a"`. After this, `x` is a list of two elements, the first of which represents the number of adults in the family, and the second of which represents the number of children in the family. These are separately converted to ints then added up in the last line.

Option 5: This option iterates through the input string, where `i` represents each individual character in the string. For example, on an input of `"1a2c"`, `i` is first set to `1`, then `a`, then `2`, then `c`. However, calculating the remainder when we divide by two (`i % 2`) only makes sense when `i` is a number, and results in an error when `i` is a string.

Option 6: This is a similar approach to Option 5, except this time, `i` represents each of the numbers 0, 1, 2, and 3, since `len(fam)` is always 4. For each such `i`, which we can think of as the position number, the code will check if the position number is even (`i % 2 == 0`). This is only true for position 0 and 2, which are the positions that contain the numbers of adults and children in the family. When this condition is met, we add the value at that position onto our running total, `x`, which at the end, equals the total number of adults and children in the family.

<average>73</average>
# END SOLUTION

# END PROB