# BEGIN PROB

For those who plan on having children, an important consideration when
deciding whether to live in an area is the cost of raising children in
that area. The DataFrame `expensive`, defined below, contains all of the
rows in `living_cost` where the `"avg_childcare_cost"` is at least
\$20,000.

    expensive = living_cost[living_cost.get("avg_childcare_cost") 
                            >= 20000]

We'll call a county an "expensive county\" if there is **at least one**
`"family_type"` in that county with an `"avg_childcare_cost"` of at
least \$20,000. Note that all expensive counties appear in the
`expensive` DataFrame, but some may appear multiple times (if they have
multiple `"family_type"`s with an `"avg_childcare_cost"` of at least
\$20,000).

Recall that the `"is_metro"` column contains Boolean values indicating
whether or not each county is part of a metropolitan (urban) area. For
all rows of `living_cost` (and, hence, `expensive`) corresponding to the
same geographic location, the value of `"is_metro"` is the same. For
instance, every row corresponding to San Diego County has an
`"is_metro"` value of `True`.

Fill in the blanks below so that the result is a DataFrame indexed by
`"state"` where the `"is_metro"` column gives the **proportion of
expensive counties in each state that are part of a metropolitan area**.
For example, if New Jersey has five expensive counties and four of them
are metropolitan, the row corresponding to a New Jersey should have a
value of 0.8 in the `"is_metro"` column.

    (expensive.groupby(____(a)____).max()
              .reset_index()
              .groupby(____(b)____).____(c)____)

# BEGIN SUBPROB

What goes in blank (a)?

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** `["state", "county"]` or `["county", "state"]`

We are told that all expensive counties appear in the `expensive` DataFrame, but some may appear multiple times, for several different `"family_type"` values. The question we want to answer, however, is about the proportion of expensive counties in each state that are part of a metropolitan area, which has nothing to do with `"family_type"`. In other words, we don't want or need multiple rows corresponding to the same US county. 

To keep just one row for each US county, we can group by both `"state"` and `"county"` (in either order). Then the resulting DataFrame will have one row for each unique combination of `"state"` and `"county"`, or one row for each US county. Notice that the `.max()` aggregation method keeps the last alphabetical value from the `"is_metro"` column in each US county. If there are multiple rows in `expensive` corresponding to the same US county, we are told that they will all have the same value in the `"is_metro"` column, so taking the maximum just takes any one of these values, which are all the same. We could have just as easily taken the minimum.

Notice the presence of `.reset_index()` in the provided code. That is a clue that we may need to group by multiple columns in this problem! 

<average>14</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

What goes in blank (b)?

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** `"state"`

Now that we have one row for each US county that is considered expensive, we want to proceed by calculating the proportion of expensive counties within each state that are in a metropolitan area. Our goal is to organize the counties by state and create a DataFrame indexed only by `"state"` so we want to group by `"state"` to achieve this.
<average>68</average>


# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

What goes in blank (c)?

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer:** `mean()`

Recall that the `"is_metro"` column consists of Boolean values, where `True` equals 1 and `False` equals 0. Notice that if we take the average of the `"is_metro"` column for all the counties in a given state, we'll be computing the sum of these 0s and 1s (or the number of `True` values) divided by the total number of expensive counties in that state. This gives the proportion of expensive counties in the state that are in a metropolitan area. Thus, when we group the expensive counties according to what state they are in, we can use the `.mean()` aggregation method to calculate the proportion of expensive counties in each state that are in a metropolitan area.

<average>35</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB
