# BEGIN PROB

Recall that `living_cost` has $31430$ rows, one for each of the ten
possible `"family_type"` values in each of the $3143$ US counties.

Consider the function `state_merge`, defined below.

    def state_merge(A, B):
        state_A = living_cost[living_cost.get("state") == A]
        state_B = living_cost[living_cost.get("state") == B]
        return state_A.merge(state_B, on="family_type").shape[0]

Suppose Montana (`"MT"`) has 5 counties, and suppose
`state_merge("MT", "NV")` evaluates to `1050`. How many counties does
Nevada (`"NV"`) have? Give your answer as an integer.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer** $21$

To get an idea of how this merge works, let's look at an example. We are told Montana has 5 counties. For now, let's just guess that Nevada has 3 counties and see how many rows the merged DataFrame would have in this case. If Montana has 5 counties, since there are 10 `"family_type"` values per county, this means the `state_A` DataFrame has 50 rows. Similarly, if Nevada has 3 counties, then `state_B` has 30 rows. When we merge on `"family_type"`, each of the 5 rows in `state_A` with a given `"family_type"` (say `"2a3c"`) will match with each of the 3 rows in `state_B` with that same `"family_type"`. This will lead to $3*5 = 15$ rows in the output corresponding to each `"family_type"`, and since there are 10 different values for `"family_type"`, this means the final output will have $3*5*10 = 150$ rows.

Generalizing what we learned from the example, if $A$ is the number of counties in Montana, and $B$ is the number of counties in Montana, then the merged DataFrame will have $A*B*10$ rows. We are told that $A = 5$ and that the merged DataFrame has $1050$ rows, so we can find $B$ by solving $5*B*10 = 1050$, which leads to $B = 21$.

<average>36</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END PROB