# BEGIN PROB

In this question, we'll explore the relationship between the ages and incomes of credit card applicants.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

The credit card company that owns the data in apps, BruinCard, has decided not to give us access to the entire `apps` DataFrame, but instead just a sample of `apps` called `small apps`.
We’ll start by using the information in `small_apps` to compute the regression line that predicts the age of an applicant given their income.
For an applicant with an income that is 8/3 standard deviations above the mean income, we predict their age to be 4/5 standard deviations above the mean age. What is the correlation coefficient, `r`, between incomes and ages in small apps? Give your answer as a **fully simplified fraction**.

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Anwser:** 3/10

To find the correlation coefficient `r` we can express the relationship as y = * or 
4/5 = r * 8/3. Rewriting this expression and solving for r, we get 12/40 which can be simplified as 3/10. 
# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Now, we want to predict the income of an applicant given their age. We will
again use the information in small apps to find the regression line.
The regression line predicts that an applicant whose age is 4/5 standard deviations above
the mean age has an income that is s standard deviations above the mean income. What is the value of `s`? Give your answer as a **fully simplified fraction**.

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Anwser:**  6/25

We can simply find the value of s by taking the given 4/5 standard deviation and multiplying by our found value for r.
As explained above, we compute a value of 3/10, so taking 3/10 * 4/5 we get 6/25. 
# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

BruinCard has now taken away our access to both apps and small apps, and has instead given us access to an even smaller sample of apps called mini apps. In mini apps, we know the following information:
- All incomes and ages are positive numbers.
- There is a positive linear association between incomes and ages.

We use the data in `mini apps` to find the regression line that will allow us to predict the income of an applicant given their age. Just to test the limits of this regression line, we use it to predict the income of an applicant who is **-2** years old, even though it doesn’t make sense for a person to have a negative age.

Let `I` be the regression line’s prediction of this applicant’s income. Which of the following inequalities are guaranteed to be satisfied? Select all that apply.

[ ] `I` < 0
[ ] `I` < mean income
[ ] |`I` - mean income| <= |mean age + 2|
[ ] |`I` - mean income| / std. of incomes <= |mean age + 2| / std. of ages
[ ] None of the above

# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Anwser:**  Options 2 and 4

To understand this response, we will investigate each response.

**Option 1:** The question asks about the prediction of the regression for an applicant who is -2 years old. The first response
essentially is saying that the income is guaranteed to be negative. This is not always true. For example, if the y intercept is 10,
and the slop is 2, we would still predict a positive income (6) for a -2 year old applicant. 

**Option 2:** This option essentially is asking if the predicted value will guaranteed to be lower than the mean income. In
the problem it is given that there is a positive linear association between income and ages, so we know that as we get closer to the mean
,which will be greater than -2 since the bounds of the regression are all positive, values will get greater than greater. Using this knowledge,
we can guarantee that the prediction for a -2 year old applicant (`I`) will be less than the mean income. 

**Option 3:** This option is essentially saying the difference between our prediction and the mean income will be less than the 
mean age + 2. This anwser cannot be guaranteed simply because we cannot make any assumptions about how the distributions of mean income
and mean age are related without converting to standard units.

**Option 4:** This option is essentially the same as option 3, but accounts for the fact we have to convert to standard units
(by diving by the std for each variable). Through converting to standard units, we know that the equality must hold. 

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Yet again, BruinCard, the company that gave us access to apps, small apps, and mini apps, has revoked our access to those three DataFrames and instead has given us micro apps, an even smaller sample of apps.
Using micro apps, we are again interested in finding the regression line that will allow us to predict the income of an applicant given their age. We are given the following information:
- The correlation coefficient, `r`, between ages and incomes is −1/3 (note the negative sign).
- The mean income is  7/2 remember, incomes are measured in tens of thousands of dollars).
- The mean age is 33.
- The regression line predicts that a 24 year old applicant has an income of 31/2.

Suppose the standard deviation of incomes in micro apps is an integer multiple of the standard deviation of ages in micro apps. That is,
`standard deviation of income = k · standard deviation of age`. What is the value of `k`? Give your answer as an integer.


# BEGIN SOLUTION
**Anwser:**  4

To find this anwser, we can relate the std of x and std of y. That is, using the information
provided in the problem we can take ((24-33) / std. x) * -1/3 and relate this to (31/2 - 7/2) / Std. y.
Simplifying this expression, we can get 9/(3 * std. x)= 12/std. y. From cross multiplication and simplification, 
we can derive stdy = (36/9) * stdx which is 4 * stdx. Therefore, the std. of x is 4 times as large
as the std. of y, so k = 4. 
# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB
