# BEGIN PROB

At TritonCard, a new UCSD alumni-run credit card company, applications
are approved at random. Each time someone submits an application, a
TritonCard employee rolls a fair six-sided die two times. If both rolls
are the same even number --- that is, if both are 2, both are 4, or both
are 6 --- TritonCard approves the application. Otherwise, they reject
it.

# BEGIN SUBPROB

You submit $k$ identical TritonCard applications. The
probability that at least one of your applications is approved is of the
form $$1-\left(\frac{a}{b}\right)^k.$$ What are the values of $a$ and
$b$? Give your answers as **integers** such that the fraction
$\frac{a}{b}$ is **fully simplified**.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer: ** $a = 11, b = 12$

The format of the answer suggests we should use the complement rule. The opposite of at least one application being approved is that no applications are approved, or equivalently, all applications are denied. 

Consider one application. Its probability of being approved is $\frac{3}{6}*\frac{1}{6} = \frac{3}{36} = \frac{1}{12}$ because we need to get any one of the three even numbers on the first roll, then the second roll must match the first. So one application has a probability of being denied equal to $\frac{11}{12}$.

Therefore, the probability that all $k$ applications are denied is $\left(\frac{11}{12}\right)^k.$ The probability that this does **not** happen, or at least one is approved, is given by $1-\left(\frac{11}{12}\right)^k.$

<average>41</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Every TritonCard credit card has a 3-digit security code on the
back, where each digit is a number 0 through 9. There are 1,000 possible
3-digit security codes: $000, 001, \dots, 998, 999$.

Tony, the CEO of TritonCard, wants to only issue credit cards whose
security codes satisfy all of the following criteria:

1.  The first digit is odd.

2.  The middle digit is 0.

3.  The last digit is even.

Tony doesn't have a great way to generate security codes meeting these
three criteria, but he does know how to generate security codes with
**three *unique* (distinct) digits**. That is, no number appears in the
security code more than once. So, Tony decides to randomly select a
security code from among those with three unique digits. If the randomly
selected security code happens to meet the desired criteria, TritonCard
will issue a credit card with this security code, otherwise Tony will
try his process again.

What is the probability that Tony's first randomly selected security
code satisfies the given criteria? Give your answer as a **fully
simplified fraction**.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer: ** $\frac{1}{36}$

Imagine generating a security code with three unique digits by selecting one digit at a time. In other words, we would need to select three values **without replacement** from the set of digits $0, 1, 2, \dots, 9$. The probability that the first digit is odd is $\frac{5}{10}$. Then, assuming the first digit is odd, the probability of the middle digit being 0 is $\frac{1}{9}$ since only nine digits are remaining, and one of them must be 0. Then, assuming we have chosen an odd number for the first digit and 0 or the middle digit, there are 8 remaining digits we could select, and only 4 of them are even, so the probability of the third digit being even is $\frac{4}{8}$. Multiplying these all together gives the probability that all three criteria are satisfied:
$$\frac{5}{10} \cdot \frac{1}{9} \cdot \frac{4}{8} = \frac{1}{36}$$

<average>38</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# BEGIN SUBPROB

Daphne, the newest employee at TritonCard, wants to try a
different way of generating security codes. She decides to randomly
select a 3-digit code from among **all 1,000** possible security codes
(i.e. the digits are not necessarily unique). As before, if the code
randomly selected code happens to meet the desired criteria, TritonCard
will issue a credit card with this security code, otherwise Daphne will
try her process again.

What is the probability that Daphne's first randomly selected security
code satisfies the given criteria? Give your answer as a **fully
simplified fraction**.

# BEGIN SOLUTION

**Answer: ** $\frac{1}{40}$

We'll use a similar strategy as in the previous part. This time, however, we need to select three values **with replacement** from the set of digits $0, 1, 2, \dots, 9$. The probability that the first digit is odd is $\frac{5}{10}$. Then, assuming the first digit is odd, the probability of the middle digit being 0 is $\frac{1}{10}$ since any of the ten digits can be chosen, and one of them is 0. Then, assuming we have chosen an odd number for the first digit and 0 or the middle digit, the probability of getting an even number for the third digit is $\frac{5}{10}$, which actually does not depend at all on what we selected for the other digits. In fact, when we sample with replacement, the probabilities of each digit satisfying the given criteria don't depend on whether the other digits satisfied the given criteria (in other words, they are independent). This is different from the previous part, where knowledge of previous digits satisfying the criteria informed the chances of the next digit satisfying the criteria. So for this problem, we can really just think of each of the three digits separately and multiply their probabilties of meeting the desired criteria:
$$\frac{5}{10} \cdot \frac{1}{10} \cdot \frac{5}{10} = \frac{1}{40}$$

<average>51</average>

# END SOLUTION

# END SUBPROB

# END PROB